This is Jockel Podcast number 121 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening,
I'm going to tell you a story and this is a story of war and pain and love and death.
And this story, this is a heroic story, quite possibly one of the most heroic stories
and at the same time, this story is also a tragedy.
And it is quite possibly one of the most tragic stories.
And this is a story of a father and a son.
This is a story that spans six wars, each one more difficult than the next.
This is a story of life.
And like all stories of life, this story ends the way that all lives end this story ends
in death.
There is no story book ending.
There is no walking off into the sunset.
There is no mercy and no quarter and no remorse from death.
And as I prepared to tell this story, there were times when I started to decide against it.
Where I began to think it would be too much.
There was another part of me.
That spoke louder and spoke stronger and that other part of me that knows that to hide
from the darkness, he's only to allow darkness to grow and I will not do that.
I will tell this story and the story that I am going to tell is not just a story,
it is not made up.
The story is the real story of the real lives of two men, two marines, a father and a son
who fought many battles, both literally and metaphorically and who did their best to fight
and win and who we can both learn a lot from.
But we can only learn if we listen, we can only learn if we study and we can only learn
if we remember what these men went through, what they did.
How they lived and how they died.
I will begin the story with the father.
He is the most famous marine in the history of the Marine Corps.
He is one of the most highly decorated men in American military history.
He is the only man ever awarded five Navy crosses.
His name is Louis Polar, better known as Chestie Polar.
He is to most marines the ultimate marine.
The godfather of the Marine Corps to this day, the mascot of the Marine Corps, which is a bulldog
that bulldog is named Chestie after Chestie Polar.
They are currently on bulldog number 15 named Chestie the 15th in boot camp in Marine Corps
boot camp recruits saying, good night Chestie at the end of a long day.
He is embedded in the fiber of the Marine Corps.
Then you might wonder who was this man and how did he become an icon to a group that
is one of the most elite fighting forces in the history of mankind in the United States Marine
Corps.
In order to find out who this man is, we are going to explore a book called Marine,
the life of Chestie Polar, written by Burke Davis.
And I will go to the book.
Louis Burwell Polar was born June 26th, 1898 into a small boys paradise.
The village of West Point, Virginia, with a pommunki and Patamoni rivers formed the
broad York.
The waters were full of fish, crab and oysters, and the woodlands teamed with game.
Sounds like a good place to grow up.
He often talked of his dream of going to the Virginia Military Institute and becoming a soldier.
He was reading his family traditions, his love of hunting, fishing, and horseback riding.
He was drawn to a military life in VMI.
Fifty years later, at the end of a fighting career, he would look back to those days and say,
I learned more in the woods, hunting and stalking about the actual art of war than I ever
learned in any school of any kind.
Those days in the woods as a kid saved my life many a time and combat.
Where he wanted to go in the military from a very young age.
And of course, I always have to mention that I'm going to go very rapidly through this
book.
They may take a while, but I'm skipping huge parts and trying to hit the highlights.
But to get the full information, obviously, you need to get the book and read it yourself.
It's a fantastic book.
To the book, his efforts at translating Caesar made him inpatient for the true message
of the soldier author.
He was so fascinated by the narrative of war that he devoured it in one night.
It opened a new world for him and began a lifelong career of serious military reading.
It's a common theme we see with great military leaders.
They read all the time.
And it started for him in a young age when he was translating Caesar.
He was captain of a track team.
It's champion high jumper and ran well in the 120 and 440 yard dashes.
So he was fairly athletic.
Although he's not a big guy.
He was not a big guy.
When you see pictures of him, he was pretty, he was relatively small and stature.
And he was also relatively, you know, he wasn't like a bulked up guy.
And there's stories on why they called him Chesty.
The predominant story is even though he was small when he would march on the parade
ground.
He would stick his chest out.
So they called him Chesty Poole.
Back to the book.
In the last week of high school, 1917, the senior class played hooky one day on the
fury which proved to be correct that the principal would not dare expel them all.
Lewis was the leader of this prank.
When they returned from a swim and a six mile hike to the river, he helped to bring back
a dozen or more bull frogs in paper bags.
Lewis and Dave feel tossed the frogs into a school room window and were rewarded by
screams and other sounds of pandemonium.
So he's, you know, I had to tell at least one of those stories that he was a mischievous
kid, you know, a little bit of a rebel.
The enrolled he did graduate enrolled in the military military of Virginia military institute.
And back to the book, Lewis was promoted to cadet corp.
At the end of the year, academically he stood 177th out of 233 cadets.
So, well, not like the front runner in the class.
His subject standings in his class mathematics, 200th English 149th German 138th history,
100nd and most significantly military science 89th.
He had no demerits for the year and almost unheard of record.
So academically, not exactly crushing it, but military bearing in what not no demerits.
He was doing well.
Now this is where things start to get a little bit interesting.
Obviously, it's 1917.
So we got World War I is going on.
And here we go back to the book.
As Chief Disappointment was that they were soldiers without arms.
For the rifles were taken by the army as the war in Europe war on and ammunition had been
two scarce for target practice.
With that, he said, I'm going to enlist in the Marines.
He said, I don't want the war to end without me.
I'm going with the rifles.
If they need them, they need me too.
In June 27th, the day after his 20th birthday, Louis took the train to Richmond and enlisted
in the Marine Corps, bound for boot camp at Parasiland, South Carolina.
So I wasn't going to sit around and let that war run out on him.
Shows up for his boot camp.
There's a drill instructor.
One of the great things about this book is the guy that wrote the book, Burke Davis.
He not only sat down and interviewed Chester Poler for hundreds of hours.
He also went and interviewed all kinds of people that interacted with Chester Puler during
his career, which he interacted with a lot of people, because he was in the Marine Corps for
a really long time for decades.
And so the book has all kinds of research and all kinds of interviews.
And one of the people that got interviewed was the drill instructor, one of the drill instructors
that put Chester Puler through boot camp.
John Structor, I think it was a gun research and Desparais.
And he said, by God, he's a Marine.
He looks as if he must sleep at attention.
You always know I have to tell him to look mean and nasty out there marching, but I never
had to tell him.
He's a natural.
He never makes the same mistake twice.
And he talked about, he talked about Poler's military history knowledge.
He said, hell, he gives me an inferiority complex.
I've read some, but that kid does Von Klausowitz backwards.
And guys, guys I never heard of.
By the dozen, he's some kid.
This stuff is like a religion with him.
So that's real stuff right there.
You know, we hear General Mattis talk about that too.
General Mattis never gets surprised because he's read it before.
Not gonna surprise me, because I already know, I already seen the situation before.
I'm not exact, but I at least have an idea of it.
The non-combs admired Poler's work on the bayonet field where big signs read advance to kill.
For two months, the class went through intensive drills in the bayonet rifle boxing judo
and infantry drill.
So back in the day, they're still getting after it.
And boxing in judo, by the way, is good combination.
Very good combination.
You take down, you get your grappling, and you get some striking.
One day, the men were told that their orders had come and they were packed to leave for
Hoboken New Jersey to ship out for France, meaning they were going to war.
The move was postponed for several days until Arnes disday canceled the orders.
So the end of the war came.
He was detached and sent to the third officer's training school.
So they took him and said, you know what, you did so good in boot camp.
The war's over, we don't have orders, we're gonna send you to be an officer.
Back to the book, he became a second lieutenant on June 4th two weeks later when he had
finished machine gun school.
The end of the war brought a huge cut in the Marine Corps.
On June 16th, Poler was discharged with hundreds of others of his rank and he was at
loose ends, he'd been a Marine officer for two weeks.
Now as he's kind of processing out, he met a guy named Captain Rupertis at the Marine
Corps headquarters and this is what the advice he gave him.
You know, he sees this young hard charter and says, if I were you, I'd go down to Haiti.
You'll get commissions in the in the constabler down there and they need good men.
And there's plenty of fighting.
You'd see action and have some fun.
So at this point in Haiti, they'd basically built this, it's, it's a John D'Amouri,
as well as John D'Amouri, as what they call it.
But it's a military force that also does police work kind of.
So and there was a revolution in Haiti, there was issues in Haiti and so America actually
invaded Haiti in 1915.
And now they had established this force to keep things under control and the way they did
it, it was run, they took the locals and they put basically hired former Marines to
be in charge of them.
And then the goal was as the locals, the native Haitians, started to understand military
operations, they would get promoted and the American Marines and soldiers could go home.
That was the plan.
So let's see, kind of just covered this.
But Haiti was striped, was the striped torn, western tip of the island shared with the Dominican
Republic, revolution had been shaken.
The government's is 1914, after almost a century of freedom from France since 1916.
At the request of the Haitian government, Marines had police the country, amid violence
which had taken nearly 2,000 lives, almost all Haitians.
General Schmedley, smoothly butler who will get to sometime on this podcast, had created
the John D'Amouri de Haiti with a true disregard for precedent.
The senior officers were US Marine officers who's briefed tours of two years created
a supply of field-trained commanders.
But he chose the Marine and listed men to act as junior officers and allowed them to stay
as long as they wish on the theory that they became more valuable as they learned the language
and customs of the people.
In practice it was these Marines, these Marines and listed men who operated the force.
Under them were many native soldiers, most of them veterans of the old Haitian army.
From this pool they were drawn second-to-tenits and sergeants and corporals.
That's what you have.
That's the situation.
So he deployed down there.
He's not really in the Marine Corps.
He's a hired hand basically.
So now he's there, not for very long, and back to the book about 4pm without warning, Lewis
stumbled into the first fight of his career and proved his instinct for combat.
The pack train, this is a group he was moving, a group of people through the woods.
The pack train was ambling around a wooded bent between hills which were littered with stones
and cactus.
When it meant an oncoming caco band, this is the revolutionaries I guess you call them.
The caco band of about 100 equally surprised and in the same formation.
All their sport is spurred his horse and yelled charge attack.
The column charged horses, pack meals and all.
And in the thunder and dust, fierce gels of the caco's broke for the hills, firing a few
stray rounds.
So that was kind of his first combat experience.
You got to bring that up.
But he was defalte aggressive even in an logistics movement.
So they got a bunch of pack horses and he's like, oh, charge.
And it worked.
Back to the book, another situation that he gets into from the opposite shore, a native and
Dominican dress wrote out on a magnificent horse, a big buckskin with white mane and tail
who splashed through the shallows under perfect control, though without a bridal or saddle.
A wonderful horse, Polar said, I'd surely like to have him.
Bruno, who's one of the guys, one of the natives that was working under him, muttered
and creole and a rifle cracked.
Polar saw one of his men.
Poled his rifle bolt back and ejected cartridge.
The beautiful horse stood in the river looking nervous about his rider floated down the
stream in a stain of blood.
The stunned polar turned to Bruno.
Did you order that man shot?
Tell Sir, you said you wanted the horse.
Anything the captain says is our command.
We have discipline here, Sir.
The man seemed unmoved by the cold blooded killing.
My God, catch the horse, get the men over the river and see if you can find that man's
family.
And the reason I pulled this out is this line right here.
Lewis never again expressed himself idly before these soldiers.
So that's a crazy story, right?
He says, oh, that's a beautiful horse.
I love to have that horse and they kill the horse riders just to civilian.
But he realized the power that you have and command.
And there's sometimes when people don't realize that.
People don't realize how I run in that with business leaders.
They'll walk around.
Oh, this is crap.
And everyone thinks it's crap that.
Or you've got to realize that your words have meaning.
And when you're in a senior position, your words have power.
And so that was how he learned that lesson in a very horrible way.
Back to the book, company A had waited the stream without opposition.
But as they mounted the ridge beyond the rifle fired and there was a terrifying streak
of a bullet overhead, Polar duct.
Lieutenant Leigh D. was at his side and said Captain Polar officers do not flinch under
fire.
They stand the men take note of this thing.
It is of first importance.
So he's going to get plenty of exercise in that.
And you'll see he becomes well known for never flinching again under fire.
Here's something about the people they were fighting these Kaco bandits.
They carry off everybody and every wounded man.
And when they catch our wounded, well, Captain, if you see one, you'll never forget.
The Kaco's believe every man who dies must go before the gods.
And they use their knives to see that when our men go, they are beyond recognition.
They slash the face to ribbons and tear the body apart.
You will see, Captain, it's a matter of life or death for the officers and non-commissioned
officers here to respect, to have respect of the, from the men.
And something more adulation.
They must obey orders to the letter without question, though they die for it.
There's the only way to handle men in combat.
If you lose control, you lose lives.
It is as simple as that.
So there you see the super strict discipline that they're into.
And this is something that you're going to see this theme throughout the book that
Chesty has this, this, this reputation, which is earned of being super hard core.
But also in the book, you're going to see over and over again that there's a huge dichotomy
that he's super hard core, but at the same time, he knows when he needs to give people
slack.
He knows when he needs to be a positive reinforcement instead of a negative one.
And his, his reputation doesn't have that.
But that line right there, like, hey, they just need to do whatever you say.
He doesn't even believe that.
But it's, it's pointed out.
And so I brought it up because the contradiction becomes pretty clear or not the contradiction,
but the dichotomy is very clear throughout this book.
So back to the book.
General John A. Lajoon, common don of the core, had come to Haiti on inspection and Lewis
was anxious to see the hero of the fighting in France.
And campus union isn't called the campus union for nothing.
And at this point, Marine Patrol filed pass, and this is a good, another, another good lesson.
They were unshaven and ill-camped.
I'm afraid the men are a little ragged and out of uniform, sir, and the company commander
Clinton said, I'm trying to improve them.
Colonel, I'm a field soldier, Lajoon said, I don't give a damn what men look like in
the field.
Only one thing interests me, and that's ending this war.
Don't waste your time shining them up for jungle work.
Our only objective is success, and I demand that.
So there's a contradiction right there.
Like, well, not a contradiction, but there's the dichotomy.
And he's here now, the other side is here and this from General Lajoon, who's saying, look,
I don't care what these guys look like in the field.
You don't need to polish them up.
They need to win.
They need to be fighting.
And Chesteepolic becomes very famous for the way he appears sometimes in the field.
Meaning he's not exactly spit and polish out there.
He was awarded the Medal military of the Republic of Haiti.
And he did not go unnoticed by his superiors in early in 1921.
He was recommended for a permanent commission in the Marine Corps, whereas rank was now
that of sergeant.
He served as a agent to Colonel Van Degreff, this is another famous Marine.
He again became a second lieutenant, US Marine Corps, but this time is a regular.
I may not have much else to go on, he told a friend, but I have some perseverance.
He had fought in 40 actions.
In Haiti, he developed his instinct.
He developed his instinctive talent for using terrain and battle and learned the lessons
of jungle fighting.
He had become strongly prejudiced against barracks and headquarters soldiers.
Despite his youth, he was one of the most combat officers in the court.
So he got noticed because he did well in combat.
He eventually gets hired on into the Marine Corps as a sergeant.
And then very quickly thereafter goes back to the off-choranks after he's working for
a Colonel Van Degreff.
So there you go.
And you can see he develops his prejudicing, its barracks and headquarters soldiers.
Re-recial on is what we call him.
Now after he came back to the state, he gets chosen to run the Marine Corps drill team,
who has apparently competing and the head had been winning against the Navy and the Army
and the Coast Guard teams.
They've been beating them.
And so he takes over.
So here we go, private Bob Norris, a company clerk drafted for the detachment, shared
the astonishment of his mates.
The lieutenant told us the first day that we would bring home the cup or die trying.
And from the cold eye, he gave us, we believed it.
We found out we found we weren't mistaken.
He took out the silent drill manual and started us from scratch.
He drove us day after day until we figured we'd never lived to see Boston.
When he was through with us, we literally thought as if we had one head instead of 80.
We had somehow, though he was hard as nails, he could be his friendly.
He could be friendly with us like no other officer we'd ever seen.
We gave him all we had.
So there you go, driving people hard, but they love him.
And they love him because he treats him with respect and he's nice to him.
And that's the dichotomy.
And he knows he instinctively how to walk that line in that dichotomy leadership.
Back to the book a few weeks afterwards, Polar was whisked off to his next duty station.
A sign is a flying cadet in Pensacola, Florida, a chance, which he had been pleading
since his first flights and he improvised Jenny Bombered Hayders.
So I didn't cover this part in the book, but when he was in Haiti, he did flights and dropped
grenades on enemy locations and he was into it.
And he gets down to Pensacola and fails his two solo tests.
He left Pensacola disappointed and interestingly, three years after this happened,
he tried to reapply.
And this is an interesting comment.
The medical board in Washington to answer to his plea for one more chance found him physically
fit to fly, but not temperamentally adapted for aviation training.
So that's interesting.
You know, that this guy who's obviously great combat leaders didn't have whatever they were
looking for for flying, he didn't have it.
And he made multiple attempts.
When he went back home for a little while, he went to a dance.
And there's some sort of interesting fact that that's the way they did it back in the
day.
He went to a dance and he met a woman named Virginia Evans.
He danced with her three times with fumbling attempts at conversation during the next
dance.
He made up his mind.
His manner became assured, will you marry me?
She laughed.
Heavens know how can I do that when I haven't even finished the school.
You will.
He spent the night in the stag line watching and dancing with her.
She noticed that he danced with no other girl after that meeting.
He did not see her again for almost 11 years, but he never lifted the long range siege.
He gets his mind committed to something.
And Virginia Evans was what he was committed to.
He gets shipped off to Hawaii in July of 1926.
He shows up there.
Another interesting story.
Lewis held firm discipline in his company.
And some men were probably resentful until they learned that he spared himself less than
he did others.
He was ruthless with violators of safety precautions where firearms were involved.
And every time a man shot a weapon on the base without good reason, the fine was automatically
$20.
One day on inspection, Polar saw 45 in the guard house picked it up, released the clip, and
pulled the slide and the trigger.
The gun fired unexpectedly in a bullet furled into the ceiling.
Justi Polar had an AD and accidental discharge.
So he had taken all the precautions except to look in the firing chamber, Polar fined
himself $100, which he gave to the guards to buy beer for a Liberty party.
He bombarded headquarters with police to send him to Nicaragua, where War had broken out.
And Marines were trying to put down a native bandit uprising.
So War is going on in Nicaragua and he says, hey, send me down there.
Back the book, Nicaragua is even more rugged than Haiti than Haiti.
The green rolling country of jungle and planes dominated by towering highlands upon which
were tumbled mountain masses.
For many years, revolutions had torn the land despite the presence of US Marines.
And now a bitter new war had called them back after years absence.
In the North lay an unconquered Indian empire, whose people did not recognize the central
government.
And there, where he moved back and forth across the border of Honduras was the rebel chief.
Augusto, Augusto, Caesar, San Dino.
So that's what's going on in Nicaragua.
Chester Polar shows up reported to General E. R. Biedle.
And he says, I'll give you a company up in the Sago V. S.
In the North.
I understand you like to mix it up.
Big mix up.
Big mix it up.
So this is again, you know, there's so many things that he does that just build this incredible
reputation that he ends up with.
And here's one of them.
The native boss with a fire eating brigand who had been appointed as the local Hefe
Polatico.
Polar invaded his office accompanied by a sergeant and in brief words told the terrorist
that he had come to restore order and that trouble, trouble makers would be would fair
badly.
He ended quietly.
You will be held responsible for any further disorder with your life.
As he talked, he saw partially open drawer in the desk before the chief and the butt of
a revolver.
The boss looked as if he wanted to snatch the pistol.
Go ahead, Polar said, use it if you can.
We'll settle this once and for all, you'd better be fast.
Like who does that?
I'll tell you who does that, Chester.
Polar does that.
Polar's career as a guerrilla fighter now opened in earnest.
In February 1930, he was ordered to clear bandits from the area of San Antonio.
Bill Lee, who had earlier served three years in Nicaragua, had been pleading for a chance
to return.
This tall musculoskelet from Massachusetts, who had been 16 years in the corn, was conditioned
by years of playing fullback on the team of a coal burning battle ship and by boxing
and pulling an ore on a crew.
Polar unhesitatingly chose him to help direct company M and Lee and Lewis found Lee, found
Lewis an ideal commander.
This is classic.
This is what Lee says about his commander, which is Chester Polar.
He never really gave me orders.
He just told me what headquarters wanted, asked me if I knew the country, and to get
up the men we needed.
He was a common sense officer, and you always knew where you stood with him.
When he was displeased about something I'd done, he never chewed me out, as so many inexperienced
officers would have done.
He would say, if I'd been doing that, I'd have done it this way.
And that would be the end of it.
We got all my brothers.
Most important of all, he was not green when he first came to Nicaragua, Haiti had taught
him jungle fighting, and he took the new country like an native.
That paragraph right there is just so important, especially again, when people get the
image of a marine and of justi Polar that he's just going to whip everyone into shape.
Like no, that's not a good leader.
That is not a good leader.
Back to the book, General McDougall recommended Polar for a Navy Cross, citing five fights
against, so this is after he's been there for a little while, citing five fights against
a period of numbers without lost to himself, the nine-known enemy dead and numerous, but
uncounted wounded, and the impressive loot of munitions, animals, food, and captured military
dispatches.
The recommendation ended thus by his intelligent and forceful leadership without thought
of his own personal safety by great physical exertion and by suffering many hardships,
he surrounded all obstacles and dealt five successive and severe blows against organized
banditry in the Republic of Nicaragua.
So there you go.
That's what he's getting after down in Nicaragua.
Here's another Captain E.E. Linsert, who is the intelligence officer in the Marine Brigade.
He saw that some of the people were jealous.
So he started getting a little bit famous.
People started writing about him.
There was an article in the New York Times about him and people started having some professional
jealousy back to the book.
And this is Lynette talking.
Now and then from New York Times, now and then the New York Times got some of these stories
from Nicaraguan papers and Polar's name became widely known.
A few officers around headquarters who thought of themselves as clouds of its types, muddered
criticisms of Polar and said he was a publicity hound.
I knew that the opposite was true and that Louis spent virtually his whole life in this
period on the trail, deep in enemy country, while our staff officer friends saw sat on
their duffs in the cities far removed from the warfare.
But you get that professional jealousy.
There's a classic example of it.
There's a general Julie and Smith talking about Louis Polar.
He was probably the bravest man I ever knew.
His was a cool courage, not one of desperation.
About the only way to contact the enemy there was to let them ambush him.
He would go anywhere without support knowing that if he got into jam, he had to get
himself out.
He never hesitated.
He invited that kind of work.
He was getting after it.
He went home for a little while.
He visited his younger brother Sam, who was also a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps.
And then Polar landed in one of the army infantry schools.
The army street army's infantry school.
He went to that school while he was there.
Sometimes had some disagreements with the staff.
Here's one.
One lecturer told the students that volume of fire in the field is more important.
The accuracy.
That brought Polar to his feet.
You must have forgotten what happened in the American Revolution.
He said, we won that war with accurate fire when the enemy had all the volume.
It won at King's Mountain and Saratoga and every other battle we won.
Real shooting almost whip the mass firing federal army in the civil war.
It's still like that.
Anywhere I've seen men shooting it out.
You don't hurt them if you don't hit him.
Great point, even though suppressive fires awesome and massive volume of fire definitely
will keep the enemy down.
Heads down.
You gotta hit him.
That's, you know, I've talked about this before.
That's why in Ramadi, our machine gunners were putting scopes on their machine guns.
They're part of partially doing it for to be able to identify who they were looking at.
Positively identify enemy looking for weapons because you got a little magnification on
their scope.
They also wanted to hit what they were shooting at.
Obviously our snipers and riflemen were doing that too.
You gotta hit the bad guys.
Back to the book.
And this huge event is at that school at Fort Benning, Lewis left Benning with many new
friends and all services, but most important carried away a distrust of over-schooling
military men.
Here's Polar talking.
The trouble with this school business is that we've taken it too far.
We sit around in classrooms and will the conditions of battle.
Of course, in actual battle, you can't will anything, not a damn thing because the enemy
will do what you don't want them to do or expect them to do almost every time.
Then the results of actual warfare are studied back in the schools, the staff officers and
planners, most of whom have never seen real battles, wonder what went wrong with their
neat plans.
You just simply cannot learn warfare in a school room or anywhere I'll accept in combat.
And you'll never know whether you're fighting man until you're under fire.
Yeah.
He goes back to Nicaragua after that.
Back to the book throughout the latter half of 1932, company M was on unseasing patrol averaging
18 to 20 miles daily on the mountain trails, stretching it some days to as much as 40
miles.
Aller and Lee and their troops marched more than 10,000 miles in the Nicaragua fighting
always on foot for they early discovered that horsemen drew fire in every skirmish.
And so they walked without the mark of officer on their uniforms.
10,000 miles.
On schedule on January 2nd, 1933, the Marines began leaving Nicaragua.
In February 1933, Lewis was introduced to military society and peaking at the US location.
His commander pinned on his chest the star for the Navy Cross.
He'd won a Nicaragua.
So he won another Navy Cross.
Less than a month later, he took over the horse Marines.
Lewis discovered that the 600 man US Marine battalion held only one field exercise each
week.
And this was called off in extreme heat or cold or a dust storm.
But the Japanese did not cancel their training marches for any reason.
He put his horse Marines through their places daily, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, leaving
them on long cross country rides with small dust storms boiling in their wake.
He rode into areas where Japanese were training and effort to observe their details and
attacked the war.
We came out and take over and we're just going to tighten things up a little bit.
One training exercise a month.
No, daily.
We're switching to daily.
Back to the book, Lewis never forgot Virginia Evans.
That was the girl from the dance and faithfully wrote her his experiences in China.
In one letter he wrote so emphatically that you can almost see him blurting out the words
he wanted to hear.
He wanted to say to her.
The deer, even if you do marry me and make me a happy man, even then, if I hear the
beat of the drum, I must leave you.
I want you to know that.
Get some.
She's not even married to him yet.
And he's like, hey, you know, that's great.
If you marry me and make me happy man, that's awesome.
But if I hear the beat of the drum, I'm out.
I'm going to do what I got to do.
Here's another.
He got in trouble.
He got in trouble a lot because he didn't hold his tongue.
And you're supposed to hold your tongue, right?
And he did.
That's why so many people loved him.
It's also why he got professional jealousy.
And it's also why he got in trouble sometimes.
Here's one example.
Paul was aware of some American military errors on board the Augusta and he never failed
to expose them and talks with his with his sentiments.
Here we have a 10,000 ton heavy cruiser with about 800 men aboard, just one on the
A'sheatic station.
The British have three cruisers on duty here.
You ever notice that we have 37 type writers on this ship?
The British have just one machine on each of their cruisers.
Why do you suppose that is?
You know damn well they don't read all his reports back in Washington when they get there.
Paperwork will ruin any military force.
They should have learned that from smedley butler.
They'll shed this monstrosity when war comes, though, and the fighting people will take
over.
So he doesn't like the paperwork, he doesn't like any, and you can see he does the people
that haven't fought.
That's where he's just talking about people that don't fight.
The people that create paperwork because they don't understand how negative and affects
everyone.
So they create this stupid paperwork.
And he ends up going to the basic school, which is like the officer with the officers
sort of get trained in all the fundamental principles of combat for the Marine Corps.
And he ended up being instructed there.
Here we go back to the book.
This is coming from a guy named Lou Walte.
Polar was my company commander and to me was the epitome of what the Marine Corps training
should do.
Not only in weapons or classroom or field training, he gave us everything hard at every
break in the field, though he drove us until our tongues were hanging out, men still
gathered around him.
He told us tales about fighting in Haiti and Nicaragua, of his patrols living off the land,
and fighting natives, all his experiences, not just guff.
Every tale had some point.
Being under Polar in basic school, did more for me than anything I experienced until I got
to Guadalcanal.
He taught us use of terrain like a master, how to use the tiniest bit of covered out
to our advantage, ground form really meant something when he explained it.
He taught us to use the bayonet with all the tricks of close-in fighting.
You couldn't mistake it.
He knew his stuff cold.
So again, classic example of when people think, oh, if I'm nicer and I take it easy
on the truth, they'll like me more.
Wrong answer.
Back to the book on a freezing rain swept day just before Polar's marriage, the class of
1937 had an uncomfortable experience with him on the drill field.
They wore nor no overcoats as they marched.
Teeth chattered, but the ranks moved with precision.
Lewis saw stray glances at the barracks detachment, which came out for a brief drill, wrapped
in heavy overcoats and then disappeared.
Those are barracks Marines.
He said with an adjunice voice, you're fighting Marines.
They completed the full schedule for the day, chilled to the bone, and soaking wet.
So legit.
That's it's solid yet.
And he got married.
And here we go.
The Polar's left the pleasant life of Philadelphia Navy Yard in the spring of 1939.
Born for the Orient.
They had a few days in Hawaii and went to Y.K.
One morning to ride surfboards with another young friend, Lieutenant Gordon Warner, a champion
swimmer who had studied under Lewis at the Basics School.
The two men went out to see a canoe into Virginia's astonishment.
Lewis rode in with Wagner balancing with his balancing with skill as rollers hurled them
towards the shore.
Lewis then returned and rode in on a surfboard alone and turned to Virginia.
Come on, you're going to try it too.
You never had so much fun.
Chester, pull or get in some of that stoke.
Awesome.
I just had to bring that out, right?
Even Chester, pull or like, there's a little bit of stoke.
Back to the book with a little further delay, Lewis got what he saw from self.
He would report to the new Marine Base in North Carolina, Swamplands at New River where
he would command the first Battalion, 7th Marines and prepare them for war.
So obviously Pearl Harbor takes place and he heads back to the states to take over the
1-7 Marines.
When the Battalion returned from the field late afternoon, Polar called a conference of his
company officers.
Gentlemen, my name's Polar.
Your new commander.
We have a good deal of work to do together.
I'll be slow to make changes, but one of them begins tomorrow.
At the first rest period, after we leave camp, camouflage every man and every piece of equipment.
We've got no camouflage material major?
Well, do it anyways.
The best is in the field.
Find a mud hole, smear mud on your faces and hands, twigs on helmets and blouses anywhere
you can stick them.
Pine foliage is good.
You'll learn.
The Battalion began with marches of 12 miles daily.
This was pushed to 15 and then 20 miles.
Polar punctuated drills with fight talks to his men.
They were very young.
Many them bearded this boys under 16 who must have lied about their ages.
They were the most obscenely profane men.
Polar had ever encountered.
Edward L. Smith, a young battalion doctor, educated at Yale and Harvard, confessed that the
constant flow of filthy language actually second him.
Now we had some guys that were marching and some of them followed fall out from the heat.
And he wrote it and the major polaroid comes by.
When you were marching this morning, I heard a marine on the roadside say, there goes
the goddamn seventh regiment.
I was amazed when you didn't step out of ranks and knock him out cold.
One of his private's Gerald White, a Yale man from Eastport, Maine, also a direst began
to take note of Polar.
He is never obscene, remarkably for the vigor with which he handles us.
He is tough and demands the utmost.
But there is always a kindly approach even when he is chewing you out the displays
of touching sympathy.
Again, this is what we are trying to do as leaders.
Balance that dichotomy.
Here's Polar talking to his troops.
One more thing, whenever we are at Chow, the privates will be fed first, then the non-combs
and officers last of all.
Typical, taking care of the troops.
And they were tough into that.
Oh, this is it when they are doing calistenics in all their marches.
And here we go back to the book.
When they were tough into that, Polar put them through a series of night marches, beginning
after midnight.
The doctors like others learned to read maps and compasses and to handle weapons, including
mortars.
The practice of identifying ships and planes, a joke in most units became a serious business
in 17, some medics learned Morris code.
The Manila John Basilone, an army-trained veteran machine gunner, traded semifur lessons
for instruction in first aid.
Had to bring out the Manila John.
It's like unbelievable man, that this story is just unbelievable.
Here's another very cool situation.
This young lieutenant was practicing some kind of an assault and he gets a little complicated
and Polar calls everyone as old man.
Whether they're old and him or younger, he calls everyone old man, which is pretty funny.
So here we go.
Polar's talking to this young lieutenant.
Old man, there's mighty little room for fancy tactics below division level.
The enemy are on the hill.
You go get him.
In the end, you'll save men.
There are times when you'll have to flank, but don't forget that the shortest distance
between two points is a straight line.
Get some.
I always talk about flanking.
I'm a big believer.
Jesse Polar says, hey, sometimes you got a flank, but sometimes you gotta go get some straight
line.
Here's another important thing.
There's a kernel that's running artillery training and he goes and talks to him.
Colonel, you'll be starting artillery training next week.
I want you to let me know when you'll fire.
I want to get my troops under it as often as I can.
And the Colonel said, there may be accidents.
And Polar says, we can chance those.
What I won't chance is taking a bunch of green kids to war before they know the sound
of big guns.
I know shells aren't the same going in and coming out, but this will help.
So he wanted to get them right there under the sound of the guns.
Lieutenant Cox, now the executive of A company, was impressed by Polar's thoroughness.
Major Polar never stood aside and said carry on sergeant and most of other officers did.
He was in there with us packing all.
He could walk down the best of us, even the kids.
Other commanders rode cars in the woods, but not Polar.
Here's another journal entry.
Private Gerald White wrote for his diary, Polar must have marched twice the distance we
did.
For all day long, he kept marching up and down the column, Johnty as a Bantam Rooster, pipe
clenched in his teeth, ever alert to see that men who were succumbing to the heat, exhaustion
or blisters were taken care of by corpsmen.
Many times today, I saw him take a bar, which is a Browning automatic rifle, a big
machine gun, a bar, machine gun, or mortar off the shoulder of some marine whose fan he
was dragging and carry it to give the poor guy some respite.
Here's another situation again, good dichotomy here.
Somebody, he finds somebody asleep on watch, which by the way, is like incredibly horrible
thing which you can get severely punished for.
Back to the book, Polar shook the boy awake.
Old man, it's dangerous to pull a trick like this.
Suppose Captain Rogers had caught you.
He'd made a big fuss and then I'd have to court marshal you and slap you into the
brick.
Maybe that's what I should do, but I'll give you another chance.
Pretty soon, now we'll be fighting for keeps and you'll stay awake or risk the lives
of every one of us.
You understand me?
So I mean, talk about it way to endure yourself to the troops.
That's so awesome.
Hey, if the Captain would have caught you, then would have been a big fuss.
Luckily I caught you.
Polar was, so they, they deploy overseas.
Polar was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel on Samoa.
He wrote to his wife, life is so short.
When I was a child, I thought it would last forever, never.
My love for you will Virginia, even into the next life and then on.
The hardest thing that I've ever done was tell you goodbye.
That was a black Tuesday and I pray that will never be another separation.
Yeah, you're not right.
You know, they're going, they're heading into a gaudal canal.
So that's going to make everyone think life can get pretty short.
Back to the book, Fire came from the Seaward Japanese ship stood close in, unchallenged
and battered the area.
Much of the grove was combed by flying fragments and men screamed in agony.
These were torn and broken and many tumble to the ground.
People reported hearing general polar or at this time Colonel polar.
It's all right, men.
Stayed down and they can't hurt you.
This one last forever tomorrow will be our turn.
So they're just getting, they landed on the beach and they're just getting hammered with
a jab from Japanese ships, big artillery from the big naval guns.
The battalion left that left the perimeter that afternoon, a file of more than 800 men.
The tail of the battalion had hardly cleared the perimeter when they were firing ahead.
Captain Hayes was near the Colonel at the moment.
Every man hit the deck except polar.
We dive for the growth beside the trail, but he walked up and down the line, talking
is if he were on parade.
He told us it was all right and this was nothing to worry about just small stuff.
We began to get up again.
Then in there he commanded that battalion as it never imagined it could be commanded.
The men saw what kind of man they had and the word went down the column as fast as light.
We lost our fear or some of it.
On a grassy null above the tangle where the night's bivouac was planned, the column
met an ambush, two bobhaggries, platoon were killed, two bobhaggries, platoon were killed,
and the unit broken to tiny groups leaving Haggry without a command.
He lane-covered and watched polar.
It was the greatest exhibition of utter disregard for personal safety I ever saw.
He definitely, like I said, whatever that officer was in Haiti that told them don't show
fear under fire, he took that one to the bank.
Back to the book, a runner just began jumping around just from different combat scenarios.
A runner just behind polar was hit in the throat and died quickly.
Everyone else hit the ground except for Colonel Polar.
First Sergeant William Pennington retained a vivid memory of the moment.
Colonel stood there in that grazing fire with that little old stump of a pipe in his face,
yelling B company second-pultoon in line here.
Machine gun fire kicked up dust all around me and I stayed down in that knee high-cune
I grass like everyone else in the ranks.
He was the only Marine you could see standing on that hillside.
Get this.
Here we go.
A grenade fell near the old man.
No more than eight yards away.
Nothing Captain Zach Cox estimated, but Polar turned when he saw a company scatter and
yelled, oh that damn thing ain't going off.
It helped the steady the men.
The grenade was a dud.
Yeah.
So they get done.
They're kind of like a situation.
First few days of fighting back the book.
Polar's battalion had 24 dead and 23 wounded.
The next day back in the main defense line of the perimeter he called together the
battalion officers.
His voice was hard and his face unsmiling.
Gentlemen, at least we've all been blooded now.
I don't want you to be moaning over our losses and feeling sorry for yourselves or taking
all the blame on your shoulders.
We've all got to leave this world someday.
We're all in the same pickle.
And there are worse things than dying for your country.
Some things about our action in the last four days I want you to remember forever.
There are some we'd all like to forget, but they'll be in your mind's eye as long as you live.
I hope we've all learned something.
Now take care of your men and make yourselves ready.
We haven't seen anything yet.
One other thing, back there on the hillside at Mount Austin, I had trouble getting company
officers up.
I hope you saw that cost us casualties.
Never do I want to see that again in my command.
I want to see officers leading.
I want you to know that your leaders and not simply commanders.
You cannot operate a military force in the field under these conditions with commanders alone.
Civilians wouldn't know what I was talking about, but you've found out now that it's true.
There aren't many qualities in a man, but one that is absolutely necessary in an infantry
leader is stark courage.
Give that idea to your men in your own way.
Don't worry over the things that are done that we can no longer help.
Concentrate on building a better combat unit because that's the best hope of all of us surviving.
None of us could help the fact that I was the only combat trained man in our outfit when
we began.
I was lucky enough to get the joke when I was young.
You'll come along fast and they'll be worked for us.
That's be ready when our time comes.
Yeah, that's, that's, I haven't really heard that point, but you know what you knew here
people talk about leaders and managers and I've worked with companies and it's a good,
a good sentiment, right?
Hey, our leaders are leaders, our leaders are leaders.
They're not managers.
Well, this is an interesting one of saying, look, it's not commanders.
Leaders, not commanders.
Yeah.
And if you think about the difference between commanders, me and I'm going to command you.
You know, leaders are going to lead.
The very, very cool distinction between those two words.
Back to the book, he still missed nothing involving the morale of his men.
Reagan Fuller, who began to feel the stark drama of the situation after the first severe
fight grew a beard and swaggered around the perimeter like a desparado.
Puller took him aside.
Oh, man, you're carried away with this war business.
You're feeling too self-important about it.
That's dangerous.
This is just a matter of killer be killed.
I got to read that again.
This is just a matter of kill or be killed.
And we've got to stay on our toes to have a chance.
Clean yourself up.
Here's some shaving gear.
And when you're through, you can take a drink from that bottle if you like.
Again, connecting with your troops and recognizing that a guy is starting to go sideways
a little bit and pulling him aside and talking to him.
All right.
Now, again, they're just engaged in a fierce battle at this point back to the book at
the peak of this.
Pollard had a telephone call from the regimental commander in the rear.
Pollard, we've got to change in orders.
Execute the reconnaissance and force with your battalion along the coast road.
Do not become involved in a large action.
Be prepared to withdraw to maintain communications.
Reagan Fuller was within the air shot of Polar.
As Polar shouted in rage, how the hell can I make a reconnaissance when we're engaged
down to the last man?
We're fighting tooth and nail man.
If you'd get off your duff and come up here where the fighting is, you could see the situation.
Boom.
Again, this is why he wasn't always super popular up the chain of
command because he spoke the truth.
Sometimes in the most, not the most tactful way.
Now, Polar's battalion actually ends up getting the upper hand there and he gets them
kind of pinned down in crushes.
Back to the book.
When it was over, the regimental headquarters called back, relieving Polar of any necessity
of a reconnaissance patrol and permitting him to return to the perimeter.
There was also a call from Hanukkah and a request to bring back his wounded.
Polar's men carried in all casualties from the two battalions.
Two battalions.
Polar's battalion had five dead and 21 wounded.
Total losses were 65 dead and 125 wounded for the operation.
Polar estimated that the enemy losses to be at least five times that.
And it was later revealed that the Japanese fourth infantry had lost almost an entire battalion
with 690 dead, the result of Polar's strike in the crater.
Now, like I said, he speaks his mind and remember, I mentioned Colonel Vandagreff, who
he worked for when he was a young lieutenant.
Well, now Colonel Vandagreff is a general and general Vandagreff, they're having a little
conversation.
Back to the book, the whole process was assinined.
They mixed up outfits as badly as they possibly could.
There was no overall commander.
Division gave orders to Hanukkah and Wailing and Me.
Wailing was senior, but orders did not come through him.
My regimental commander was behind the river and not on scene.
Thus, when they found two battalions stopped cold in the fight, communications were so
bad they pulled these two outfits and left me to face all the enemy.
We were blind lucky to come out as we did.
Imagine them ordering me to go on some damn reconnaissance when I was fighting with every
man I had.
Proper designation of authority would have made everything clear.
Boom.
There you go.
Proper designation of authority.
People need to know who's in charge.
And you need to put someone in charge.
That's the way it's got to work.
When you don't have that, you get confused and you get issues.
Now there's like a field doctor there.
Dr. Smith noted in his diary that Polar seemed more concerned over losses.
He has become almost fanatical in his desire to see that men are properly cared for.
If a man's body is lost, he is greatly disturbed and frets about the time lost before
he can recover the body and give it a decent burial.
There you go.
There was one unpleasant matter.
The young Philadelphia who had earlier been a disciplinary problem on Samoa had failed
the Colonel on the crater march.
Polar called Jim Hayes the legal officer.
I want you to have her tried for dereliction of duty in the face of the enemy.
He threw away his load of mortar shells because it was too heavy and he cost me the lives
of several men damn his time.
I'll draw a recommendation.
I'm going to have him shot.
I don't think I covered it.
The reason I pointed that out is because that guy redeems himself in the future.
It's one of the times where Polar says, okay, you're good.
He does some incredibly brave and crazy things.
Here we go back to the book.
The major Japanese attack was expected along the mat and cow in most of the division strength
was placed there.
The Japanese move to attack these positions on October 15th with the second division,
assigned to swing far inland and hit the Marines from the south in an area where Polar's
men awaited.
Nine infantry battalion set out on this march total of 5,600 men excluding artillery
and other support troops.
The soldiers carried or dragged everything, even guns over the rough trails.
They were late in making their attack and abandoned many guns on the trail.
So the Japanese are coming in there, coming aggressively.
A company was weaker by one platoon than the other companies for despite protests of
Conner Polar.
There was an outpost of 46 of its men, some 3,000 yards to their front, commanded by
Sergeant Ralph Briggs Jr., a fort Edward's Wisconsin.
These men have been out for several days to warn of an enemy approach.
Colonel Polar was on the field phone during the day of digging in, trying to persuade
his regimental commander to have headquarters with draw, bricks and his patrol.
But going to sacrifice those men, that's all.
We don't need any bait on the hook as you say.
If they're coming, they're coming.
This is foolishness to throw away that platoon and they do a great job in the mini-series,
the Pacific of kind of showing this.
And if you ever watch the Pacific, I mean, just watch it, watch it about 10 times.
I've probably watched it in 20 times.
And he tries to keep them as safe as he can.
Back to the book.
All righty said, let's get this straight.
Hold your hold fire until you get an order for me.
The outpost must get clear before we open up.
If the bastard's breakthrough, use the bayonet and keep someone at every phone.
Wait.
Puller looked at his watch. It was 10 o'clock. Yells rolled from the right.
Japanese voices shouting in English, blood for the emperor.
Marine you die.
A Marine bellowed back to hell with your goddamn emperor.
Sergeant Manila John Boselon's nest of guns is about the center of sea company in the
middle of the line with a slight decline in his front.
The enemy drove toward him so persistently that he covered the hill with their bodies.
And when the first fury of attack faded, he sent men to push down the wall of enemy bodies
to clear the fire lane.
Of course, that's John Baselon who is awarded the Medal of Honor for those actions that
night.
Now there's a artillery commander, a little bit to the rear named Devol.
And Polar is asking Devol for massive artillery support because they're like going to
be overrun.
Polar called the Valle again, give us all you've got.
We're holding on by our toenails.
I'll give you all you call for Polar, but God knows what will happen when this ammo we
have is gone.
If we don't need it now, we'll never need it.
If they get through here tonight, there won't be a tomorrow.
That's a situation that they were in.
They can follow or call from the CP from the flank, Colonel, I'm just about running out of
ammo.
I've used almost three and a half units of fire.
You got bayonets, haven't you?
Fuller?
Sure.
Yes, sir.
All right, then.
Hang on.
And the heaviest of the firing when Polar left the CP, Regimental headquarters called for
him.
Not here, sir, the wireman said.
Colonel Polar's up front.
Find him, get him on the phone.
After the crew had made several calls to the line position, Polar returned and talked to
Regimental Commander, the few remaining in the pit heard Polar's explosive reply.
What do you mean what's going on?
We're neck deep in a firefight and have no time standing here, bull flinging.
If you want to find out what's going on, come up and see.
He was that good.
That he was able to do that.
You know, it's kind of like when Remo and I was talking about Steve Jobs, a couple podcasts
going on.
I was like, hey, look, he was a, he was not a good leader.
He was abusive and he was, but he was so good at his other skills.
Well, he, Polar's such a great leader down the chain of command.
And he's such a great tactician and he's so brave and so, do, do dominant on the battlefield.
Then he does this stuff and like basically gets away with it.
Yeah.
Back to the book.
There was one enemy prisoner, a little sullen war officer who refused to talk when
he was brought to Polar.
The Colonel was so stung by the insolence of the prisoner that he slapped him with a flat
end of an entrenching tool.
Teeth spilled from the Japs mouth, but they were false teeth.
He gave no information, even then.
A later prisoner talked freely with Polar and Polar asked him, why didn't you change your
tactics when you saw you weren't breaking our line?
Why didn't you shift to a weaker spot?
That is not the Japanese way.
The plan had been made.
No one would have dared to change it.
It must go as it is written.
That's why we have decentralized commands.
That's the opposite of decentralized command.
That's called centralized command.
Here's the plan.
This is what you will execute.
Don't do anything different.
Back to the book.
And this is kind of after this thing settled down.
That's why they have prisoners.
That's why he's doing interrogation.
That's why he's asking why didn't you change your tactics when you broke the line.
Back to the book.
Polars, Polars men found 250 Japanese dead inside their lines during the day.
About 25 of them officers who want to major who had committed suicide, leaving a final entry
in his diary on the loss of his colors and troops.
I do not know what excuse to give.
I apologize for what I have done.
I am going to return my borrowed life today with short interest.
Yeah, I thought that that was worth bringing up because you always hear about the fanaticism
of the Japanese, but there you go.
That's it.
I apologize.
And I'm going to kill myself because I didn't succeed in my mission.
Polars casualties for the battle were 1930 wounded and 12 missing.
Two or three days later when the stench of bloated bodies in his front made his men
wretch, Polar persuaded division to make count of the enemy casualties and bury the corpses.
This burial detail counted 1,462 bodies and spent two days in the grizzly work.
Bulldozers, ground, gouge holes and covered the enemy dead in great pits.
So that's incredible.
Incredible.
That killed ratio.
The Colonel washed in the river with the troops and Reagan Fuller noticed that even
when he washed his uniforms, he stripped with the enlisted men in the river.
A common touch the men liked Fuller said, though a few of the clouds were its type officers
in the rear-ranked Snickard behind his back, the men knew he was real.
That he never put on an act and they loved him.
And again, here's the dichotomy of it.
We know what a hard ass he is.
Back to the book, Polar Shield is shielded as men from unnecessary work.
A young officer who insisted that they police up the batagon area, removing jab beer cans
and the debris of the battle was stopped by the Colonel.
Forget it old man.
Let the boys get in their sacks and leave them the hell alone.
They're half dead from fever and fighting and they'll have to hop to it again any day now.
So there you go.
That's the act like he just nails that he's perfect.
Another situation, Polar was 300 to 400 yards behind the point of his column.
The first salvo of Japanese fire burst just in front of him.
For the first time in his combat career, spanning 23 years, his luck ran out under enemy
fire.
He was blown from his feet by a spray of flying metal.
Michelle fragments his torn his legs and lower body and he was bleeding freely.
The field telephone was carried by a Marine just in his rear.
Call had quarters old man.
Polar said, I can't serve the wires been cut.
The Colonel struggled unsteadily to his feet and tried to help the communications man repair
the wire.
As he stood an enemy sniper shot, an enemy sniper shot him twice through the flesh
of his arm with a small caliber bullets.
He sank back to the ground.
The target, pending to him, come up by now and he helped Shepard lift Polar into a
poncho and get him off the ground to avoid tetanus infection.
Shepard bent over Polar.
Are you able to stay in command sir?
Yes, of course I am.
I'll be okay.
I can't leave these men.
May I call for artillery fire if I can get ready or phone working?
Yes, if you know how.
Men shoveled out a fox hole for Polar and lowered him into the poncho.
The telephone is placed in the hole with him and when the line was repaired he cradled
the phone in one arm and talked to headquarters.
Pendington listened as he discussed a mortar barrage across the river the next morning
and the launching of a dawn attack.
He's all shot up and blown up and he's planning an attack for the morning.
Shepard called in the artillery fire, shell soon burst in the thick it's across the
stream and the enemy was quiet for the rest of that evening.
Late in the night Polar realized that he could no longer walk and call division headquarters.
I find myself unable to proceed by leading my troops.
He said after the delay word came back, Major John C. Weber will assume command of your
battalion within a few hours.
He is leaving the perimeter immediately.
So that was, you know, he gets pulled out, going back to the book, Lieutenant Colonel Polar
is being recommended by General Vandagriff for the Medal of Honor for leading his battalion
with seven holes in him continually for 24 hours.
It's a good recommended for the Medal of Honor.
This did not develop at the Division Commander in addition to commanding Polar's battalion
for its perimeter defense and putting in for a third Navy cross for its commander also
to run.
I have known Lewis Polar since 1919.
He was one of the best combat patrol officers I knew, just as he is in an outstanding officer
today.
He did a wonderful job with his battalion on Guadal Canal and every phase in the operation.
I am as proud to have him as a friend, as I was glad to have him as a Marine.
January 1st 1943 was warm and sunny and the loading went smoothly.
The gear was all stowed in the last of the first Marine Division troops were going aboard.
It was only then that their condition became apparent, men who had fought for four months
in the foulest climate in the Pacific and had been sheldon bombed or shot up by snipers
almost constantly between battles seemed to collapse at the same moment.
Scores were unable to climb the nets into the ships and had to be carried aboard.
They had shocked expressions with glazed sunken eyes.
For weeks, most of them would be patients with malaria, dysentery, assorted fevers and fungus
infections.
Virtually, every man in the Division had malaria by now.
Polar said it isn't so much that their sick are even worn out.
It's the reaction from the discovery that they're finally leaving this damn place and yet
a lot of them grew into men here.
The Division's dead were 1,242 and 2,655 had been wounded.
Sickness was near total.
No one could yet grasp the importance of the island fighting on the day of loading out.
The longest of the Pacific island campaigns had been fought and the pattern of future victories
had been set.
The Japanese had paid a higher price here than they would pay again and had thrown all their
disposal.
The ships, planes, men and machines.
More than 50,000 men had been lost on the island or on the ships trying to reach it.
In Japan it was already known as the island of death.
For more than a year radio Tokyo was to call the First Marine Division the Guadalcanal
butchers.
So that's Guadalcanal.
He actually heads home and here we go back to the book.
An aide in the office in Washington.
General Thomas Holcomb jolted in with the news.
The general's given you to the army, Polar.
I mean all alone.
For three or four months General Marshall wants you to explain the Guadalcanal fighting
to his troops all over the country.
You needn't fret about leaving your men.
The division will be in Australia for the next six months before we can get back into
action.
I expect you'll rejoin it in time for another big show.
So there's time between these big island campaigns and he goes home to America to take
over or spread the word about what the fighting was like.
Back to the book.
He often spoke three times daily.
He was on and off planes until he all but lost track of his route.
He told the story of his fight for the perimeter of Baz alone pushing the wall of enemy
bodies down the hill of burials by bulldozer and of weapons they used.
He told of patrols and thick growth but never of his wounds.
I can't tell you the japs are no damn good he said because they are good.
But we're better.
One American properly trained can handle two of the yellow bastards.
They have discipline and they use the jungle cover better than we do but they can't think
on their own.
That's a critical dichotomy.
The discipline which obviously is something that I am passionate about.
But if you put so much discipline in two much discipline in place people don't think
for themselves anymore.
They just wait.
They never change battle plans once they're made regardless of costs.
They think they lose face.
They have no artillery compared with ours and our guns chew them to pieces.
They get the jungle rot just as much as we do.
They're not superman and will whip the hell out of them and you'll be helping to do it
soon I suppose.
If you take your training seriously then there's nothing to worry about.
But you'll have to be hard and you can be hard when you write with your families.
You try to convince them that we're in a war to the finish and that all these strikes
and softness and confusion will have to go.
I can tell you one more thing.
There are worse things than dying for your country.
When you spoke to the war production board officials in Washington here's what he said.
I want to ask you why American troops shouldn't have the best.
The world's best fighting equipment.
On Guadalcan now we saw our trenching shovels break at first use.
All from men now have jab shovels because they're better and more dependable.
Jab field glasses are better too.
I have good ones myself, German glasses that I've carried for 20 years.
Why should American glasses be so poor?
Not worth the damn in the tropics.
They fog up and they are improperly sealed.
Once they get damped they're done for.
I've seen hundreds of pairs tossed away in the jungle or sea because men know they can
see as well with the naked eye.
What kind of American ingenuity or patriotism produce those?
He doesn't play.
This is a little part about humility.
We'll have to get over the idea that where the greatest people on earth and every respect,
that we're infalible and that no one else has ideas worth considering.
One of the reasons we had to fight against the odds on Guadalcan now was this insufferable
American notion of superiority and our carelessness in the face of danger.
It goes back to Pearl Harbor and far beyond.
He said, you got to stay humble.
He can't be arrogant.
He was summoned before the high command of the Marine Corps and gave the same fourth
right picture of the fighting he had seen.
Gentlemen, we have some of the same old troubles.
Staff officers who've never seen combat issue unrealistic orders that cost lives
time, money and ruin morale.
For example, we were out there on that island trying to defend a perimeter when they
wanted to send a patrol outside the command never used a single regiment but sent out three
mixed battalions.
The logical thing would have been a regular regiment with one battalion leading the
other and the other two covering.
Officers and men would be familiar with each other and there would never be questions
about who is in command.
When we did go out, it was almost always with mixed battalions.
It may look good in the staff officers chart here at headquarters but it didn't work.
Brought us only stumbling and confusing and casualties.
More than once, we were out in the jungle, nobody really knew who is in command.
I could cite you the names of many a man I lost because of that.
It was inexcusable.
This is something that it absolutely is very important to understand, especially for
guys that are, I guess anybody.
You work in your train in a certain way.
As much as you can, stay in the groups that you work in train with.
For them to just randomly, who knows why they did this, but I'll tell you what I've seen.
I've seen this where let's say there's some operation.
That's a high visibility operation that everyone thinks, wow, that'd be a cool operation
to do.
Instead of just taking, let's say, one company, they go, okay, well, we want to get multiple
different people to get to be able to be involved in this operation.
So, take one, one, put two in from this company, one put two in from this other company,
and we'll just send them all out there.
That's exactly what he's talking about.
No, no, hey, sorry, you guys aren't going to go on this operation.
We're sending an alpha company or a bravo company or whatever.
That's the way you do it.
Play around.
Here's a little comment because I love machine guns.
A little comment on the art of machine gunnery.
These guns are the most important firepower to infantry.
I'm just making that statement.
Cool.
Tested, chesty-polar.
Statement.
Machine guns go be a machine gunner.
You know what I'm saying?
I know, I was so fired up one day, we were at the gym and I walked in.
There was some kid was signing up and he was, no, I call him a kid.
He was probably, oh man, 24 years old, yeah.
And so I said, hey, oh man, no, I think, I said, you know, I could tell, yeah, like
a high-intite.
I was like, oh, are you in military?
He goes, yeah, I'm in the Marine Corps.
I said, what are you doing the Marine Corps?
He said, machine gunner.
Dig it.
S.
Awesome.
All right.
Here's another comment.
We just don't know all we ought to know about warfare on land or sea.
Just off-Grawl Channel, not long ago, we lost three cruises.
Cruisers blasted down by jab guns as they sat there, sitting ducks, that's all.
I'll tell you exactly why we lost him.
The Admiral and Charred got a plane report that the jab force was approaching at 14 knots
by daylight.
So we figured at this speed the enemy couldn't arrive in his waters before the next
dawn.
After dark, of course, the jab stepped up through speed to 28 knots and got to the
scene at 3 a.m. when our men were not even at battle stations.
Instead of keeping, it happened like that.
I'm positive.
And instead of keeping such thing secret, we ought to have them emblazoned on the
gate at every naval station.
We must not be too proud or too stupid to profit by armistakes.
And God knows that we make them.
Have you ever heard the term profit from armistakes before?
No, but I really like it.
Yeah, I think I really like it too.
Why not?
Profit from your mistakes.
It's brilliant.
Yeah, kind of puts it more into, you know, they say, learn from your mistakes, right?
Yeah, they learn cool.
So when you say proud to say something, so much more valuable.
Yeah, talks a little bit about, uh, well, the psychological impact of combat.
I know something about the strain of combat for five years in Nicaragua, March, at least
20 days a month under constant foot out of enemy ambushed.
But I never saw those, but I never saw those Indian troops any sign of battle fatigue or
anything resembling it.
In a pacific, I saw a lot of our people break down. my reaction is this, what does it matter?
How you're killed if you're killed in battle?
Why does the louder noise in a fight with every artillery embombs makes such a difference?
I think the difference is entirely in the mind and the preparation of men for combat.
In Haiti, actions when I fought, the men were all picked volunteers, professionals who were
paid to fight and realized they might die in the trade.
I'm sure from my own experience that it's the mental attitude.
I went through the worst days they had on Guadalcanal and I didn't suffer a bit.
I lost some weight, but that was because we didn't get the proper food.
If we make our men tough in the mind before they go to war and give them an honest idea
of what war is like, we won't have so much of this trouble.
Why do we have to baby them with all this crap about careers and opportunity and foreign
travel?
Oh, yeah.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
They say, forget where I read this, but people who come back from war, they kind of differentiated
where people who were in it, like JPE and you and I just always wanted to do this, to
be a combat leader, to be a Navy SEAL, to be a commando, typically people with that kind
of attitude, they don't get affected by it because it's kind of like the thing.
They get affected less.
Yeah, generally.
You are correct.
Generally, guys that like special operations, guys, that's what they wanted to do.
There's a little bunch of other things that play into that as well.
The training, because he's talking about hard training, well, that's what, in special
operations, you do get harder training.
You have a tighter, or you have a real close relationship with all your guys and you
stay together with your guys.
That is helpful too.
It's not any tighter relationship that you have in an infantry, because in trust me, I've
seen those in Marine Corps and Army infantry and military units get tight, doesn't matter
whether your special operations are not.
But the training, they step up the training, they make it really hard.
That plays a role, but I think your right is that guys that think that that's what they
want to do, then that helps as well.
There's a bunch of little factors, but I think what his point is, like there's two,
there's two points.
Number one, make the training hard as, I guess there's three points.
Number one, make the training hard as hell.
Number two, make sure people know it too expect and don't talk to them about the career
opportunities.
Right.
I just answered this question on the way of the warrior kid bought cast, right?
Well, I answered the question, the question was, is it fun to be an AV seal?
And I answered the question, hey, is it fun?
Yes, absolutely, it's fun.
That's part of it.
But the other part of it is you are going to go to war and you could die.
And that's a harsh thing to tell a nine-year-old or a ten-year-old.
But that's exactly what you should tell a nine-year-old or a ten-year-old.
Because that's what you're signing up for.
I was doing another interview recently and I told this story and I've told it before,
but it was like the first time some woman that I had been working with a company and some
woman that had her husband or something.
Anyways, the woman said, can you meet my son?
He really wants to be an AV seal.
And I was, you know, I said, oh, yeah, sure.
The kid was whatever 17 or 18 years old.
He was a junior senior in high school and he was this strapping kid who was, you know,
looked like a great athlete and she wanted to bring me to lunch with him.
So we went to lunch and it was, you know, the details of the story.
I don't recall exactly, but it was basically, you know, my son, he wants to be an AV seal.
He's on the swim team and he's on the track team and he played football and he just loves
working out and he just, I think he'd be great.
He just, he can do 28 pull-ups and the kids like, yeah, I love working out and I plus
I surf too and I love the ocean.
I love the water.
It was like cool and, you know, for a while, you know, I was listening and then, you know,
of course I was like, yeah, you know, that sounds like, sounds like you'd be well-prepared
for the physical aspects of it.
But when you have to remember that the reason you become a seal is so you can go and fight
in wars and you're going to kill people and you're going to be at the risk of dying
and you're going to be at the risk of being wounded and that's what's going to happen to
your friends if not you.
And when I got done saying like on that sentence, the mom's face completely changed.
Because it's what he's talking about right here, which is, hey, you know, it's travel
and adventure and career opportunities like no, what it is is war and savagery and the
worst things that you could possibly experience is what you're going to experience.
That's what you need to tell people.
Yeah, the special operations and the conclusion for what I was reading there was,
people when they go in knowing and kind of how they put it, like forward leaning into the
realities of a military situation, it tends to be special operations or guys who want to
do it for that reason.
Not the guy who got sold on World Travel, the way I got to college.
That guy is definitely going to have a rough time with it.
And you've got to remember, too, there's hundreds of there's a massive percentage of Army
infantry, Marine Corps infantry, guess what they want to be?
Marine Corps infantry, they want to be, that's what they want to do.
They're just as passionate about that as some guy, like, because that job, it's a little
bit different, but a lot of that parts of that job are, you know, when we had Brian
Stan on, we talked about this, you know, like Brian Stan was, you get to be in charge
of more people, you get, it's a different dynamic, but the combat leadership opportunities
and just the combat opportunities.
I mean, when we were in the body, the guy's the infantry in the body, let's guys
were freaking getting after it.
They were just, it was insane to watch those guys.
So, you know, there's plenty, I mean, there's the vast majority or there's plenty of guys
in the regular conventional forces.
They do just as good after combat as the special operations guys do.
So it's more, and we talked about this Peter Tia.
It was like, if a guy's fractured going in, it doesn't matter if he's special operations
or conventional forces or general purpose units, he's, if he's fractured going in, the
war's going to mess him up.
Yeah.
If he's solid going in, he's going to do well.
So that's the determining factor.
The training definitely helps.
The telling people the truth upfront definitely helps, but you don't know what you're going
to get.
Yeah.
And there's also plenty guys' special operations that do have serious issues.
And the article wasn't about like special operations.
That's not what it was about.
It was more about the state of mind.
I think special where I know that special operations was just like an example of some
point that they were making.
Well, we talked again, I'm referencing all these different podcasts, but when Jordan Peterson
was on, we talked about like the offensive mindset.
Right.
And the offensive you can be, generally, the more psychologically comforting that is.
It's psychologically uncomfortable to be on the defensive.
Yeah.
And it's more psychologically comfortable to be on the offensive.
Right.
Did I just get that right?
Yes.
Psychologically uncomfortable to be on the defensive psychologically more comfortable.
It's not necessarily comfortable because you still have bad things that can happen when
you're on offense, but it's definitely psychologically more comfortable.
Yeah.
So those things play a role.
I'm going to like, you happen like to your experience, right?
You consider an experience.
It's like, I'm going to happen to this experience rather than this experience.
It'll be offensive.
It's a defensive.
Absolutely.
We will say, hey, how life is life treating you versus how are you treating life?
You know that old saying.
Yeah.
You see what I'm saying?
I'll go with it.
Yeah.
Just go with it.
Here's another thing that he calls out.
And this is very interesting.
And everyone that's in the military will hear this and kind of shake their head.
The practice of having command post exercises, Polar said, though he realized that he was
trading on prominent toes in his audience, we take skeleton forces of headquarters troops
and the like, just a handful and go through exercises so often that we forget we aren't
simulating that we aren't simulating actual warfare.
It has become so bad that even platoons are carrying out command post exercises.
In battle, of course, once you set up a CP, which is a command post, you stop for all,
you stop all forward motion.
Because the commander sit on their duffs in relative security.
And when you halt forward motion, you get in trouble immediately.
I have to admit, we have to learn.
I admit we have to learn how to handle commands, but we've carried it to a ridiculous
extreme.
They do a lot of that command exercises.
The most unrealistic thing about it is like he's saying that you'll have not a real
platoon, but like a small representation of a platoon.
So the commander can move that platoon around really easily because it's this little thing.
But then when you have a real platoon that takes real vehicles and real, it's like moving
pieces on a board that's opposed to like, well, you move this battalion from here to there.
All you do is just move this move their piece on a board.
That was real easy.
You look at what actually happens in the field when you move that piece of a battalion.
It's massive.
It's this incredible project to make it happen.
Yeah.
To move a battalion, you know, four miles or two miles or whatever.
It's like, this is what it's going to take.
Fuel and food and ammunition and wounded and planning and all this stuff.
But the person up top just goes, oh yeah, we'll just have that entire day.
Yeah.
One morning as he approached a company of his men lounging among their tents, a newly
arrived lieutenant, barked in order and the reen scramble to their feet standing and
attention.
What the hell's wrong with you, Polarord?
Don't you think I've got more sense than to manned that you put on a show every time
I come with him pistol range, get back down on your duffs.
You ought to know me well enough that I'm no damned, banned box soldier.
Take it easy.
There's enough for you to do when we get to our next assignment.
Again, dichotomy.
It's okay.
You don't need to snap to attention every time I come around.
There's an army quartermaster and the general showed up and they had asked for a bunch
of shotgun shells.
Here we go back to the book.
He's asked for 10,000 brass buckshot shells.
What the devilities he want with those?
To kill Japs with Sir doesn't Colonel Polar know that Buckshot is prohibited by the Geneva
Convention.
Sir, Colonel Polar doesn't give a damn about the Geneva Convention anymore than the
Japs did at Pearl Harbor.
Now as they're getting ready to go and assault, Gloster, the enemy had word of the coming
assault.
Radio Tokyo Blair'd one afternoon in late December the first American Marine Division
Assorted cutthroats, degenerates and jail birds has been chased out of Melbourne is now
in Camp and New Guinea and will try to invade Cape Gloster.
I'm pleased to add that our soldiers are fully prepared to repulse the Sinslow attempt.
The jungles will run red with the blood of the Guadalcanal butchers.
So that's the propaganda cutthroats degenerates and jail birds.
So now they're going to Gloster.
Cape Gloster.
On the early morning of December 26, they stood off Cape Gloster.
Big guns on the fleet rolled for a half for an hour and a half beginning before dawn
in the Marines in their traditional D-Day Breck.
Eighth their traditional D-Day Breckfist of Staken Eggs.
While Salva's shook the holes beneath them.
Third Battalion 7th Marines landed first quickly followed by Polar's old Battalion which
floundered through a marass behind the beach and pushed up the tall noll already known
to aviators and shipgunners as target hill.
An hour after the 7th was ashore, the first Marines came, turned toward the airfield
and walked into a well-laid Japanese ambush.
Tank's came into clear the enemy from their hidden bunkers and by nightfall the first
was well on its way to the airfield.
A falling tree in the soggy forest injured one Marine and otherwise they were only 20 killed
and 22 wounded on D-Day.
The most dangerous casualties were estimated at 50 on December 30th the first and fifth secured
the field after hand-to-hand fighting in which they had to call on tanks for help.
One sergeant remembered a moment from a mortar attack by the enemy.
A kid sitting there in his foxhole he didn't have any head.
He just had a neck with dog tags on it.
A gray faced youngster nearby was muttering as he fled, as he fired his rifle, it don't
do any good.
I got three of them but it don't do any good.
The Japanese sniper said infiltrated the line and killed Marines at short range and one unit
tried to waive the stream was broken.
It survivors driven to hide in the weeds on the edge.
From midstream a boy who failed to make it over hung over a log is body riddled by a
score of bullets.
For an half an hour or more he called to his mates before he died.
I'm here.
Here I am.
The attack had stalled, but line had now become you-shaped with a pocket of the enemy holding
back the center.
General Rupertus from division relieved the commander of the third battalion seventh
Marines and sent Polar into action once more with orders to reorganize and drive forward
the unit.
So they weren't making any progress.
The commander said you know what, I'm pulling Polar back in action.
Send the wolf.
The trouble was the same and here's Polar talking to his guys as he showed up.
The Polar was the same old thing.
The trouble was the same old thing.
Staff officers don't know the meaning of terrain and how it conslowed down troops and
cost lives.
I went up to the front about two in the afternoon.
I called the company commanders and told them as briefly as I could what I had in mind.
I've been sent to take over, your commander has been relieved.
I don't intend to believe you can bet on that.
We're going to attack here in the morning.
There were protests that the jab bunkers could not be seen and that they were cutting
up our line.
I told them I had the medicine for that.
I ordered up some of Joe Buckley's half-tracks because I knew their guns could deal
with the bunkers.
The resistance was fairly light, but the staff orders were so foolish that we were just
sitting targets that we were making sitting targets of our people.
The blockley did a great job there as he always did.
They had orders and these battions to guide both right and left in order that can't be
followed well even on a pernate parade ground.
Any beginner knows that you can guide left or you can guide right or even center, but
you can't follow two leaders on either side at the same time.
The line will buckle and cause gaps.
We were frustrating the troops with delays to reform the line.
I just said now we will go forward and forget about all this guiding business.
We forget there is anybody on the flanks.
We have enough power here to drive and we are going to drive, blow your way through
think of nothing else.
So important part there once again.
You can't follow multiple leaders at the same time.
He's talking about a physical example.
Guiding in the military is when you are marching, you line up with a person to your left
usually.
These people say no line up with a person to your left and the person to your right.
How the hell are you going to do that?
You'd not.
That's the answer.
Before the gun stopped a staff officer from division, a staff officer from division went
up on the line.
And here he says, I went up there in the heaviest of the action when fire was flying all
around us.
Polar walked around outside the wire at hill 660 and stopped that every dugout to talk
to some kid.
He'd say, how's things going there old man?
Just as if he'd come next door to borrow a couple of sugar.
Those kids thought it was the greatest thing that ever happened.
You'd think you'd been handing out $1,000 bills down the line and there was someplace
to spend them.
Polar had found one demoralized boy sitting stonely in his hole looking out with a tell
tale thousand yard stare.
He muttered over and over.
Colonel, we got to get the hell out of here.
That's no way to talk old man.
I'm going to let the boy a few paces to the rear and sat with him for 10 minutes or so.
Look old man, I want to go home too.
I'm not getting any younger.
Hell, I'm 45 years old.
You know that?
I got a family at home.
I know this dump is no good, but neither of us is going home until we lick these bastards.
We've got to make, we've got to help make our folks at home safe too.
I'll try and get you some hot chow up here old man.
So again, you just got a guy that's totally gets it.
Lots of heavy fighting.
They get plaster secured in February 1944.
Polar had a physical examination in the cape and the camp at Cape Gloster and aside from
a notation of a recent attack of malaria was found in perfect condition.
On the same day upon hearing rumored that one third of the veterans of Gwala Canal was to
be rotated back to the states, Polar wrote general Holcomb, the common dont in terms which
would have been appreciated by a Caesar or Napoleon.
It is respectfully requested that my present assignment to a combat unit be extended until
the downfall of the Japanese Empire.
Freaking gets them.
The division recouped in Drew placements, the first of the new weapons began to appear
in quantities.
The Springfield is almost disappeared now to Polar Sorrow.
He was interested in the first of a new style flame frower when an officer brought one
by.
The youngster proudly explained the work of the deadly torch and looked to Polar for approval.
Where's the bayonet fit on it?
The another like famous quote from Chestie Polar.
There's a flame frower but you need to put a bayonet fitting on it just in case.
He's counseling his officers about showing being brave and stepping up.
At the same time, here's the, here's the dichotomy.
He says, I don't want you to go up under the guns just for show.
It's only the idiots and green kids who think they're bulletproof, but if you don't
show some courage, your officers won't show it either.
And the kids will hang back.
It's that, it's that kind of an outfit that always has trouble.
Next we go.
Polar returned to Pavuvo to find a new stern the camps.
The Allied landings in France were expanding.
The new B-29s had begun to bomb Tokyo, Saipan and Falun, whole fleets of cargo ships had
brought the first division new equipment to Pavuvo and there was a word of an independent
role for the Marines in a new operation.
General MacArthur would follow his own southern course on island hopping, but the core would
stab into the central Pacific.
Polar occurred hardly conceive of the scope of the new Marine Corps, which he had known
to as a force of a mere 19,000 as pre-war days.
They were now five divisions and, and a brigade in the Pacific and another division in training
in California, well over a hundred thousand men.
In late July, on that same day Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman were nominated
for the coming elections back home, Marines landed on Guam.
A few days after Louis got the news.
Lieutenant Colonel Sam Polar had been killed, shot through the heart by a machine gunner's
bullet.
His intonates notice a new reserve in the Colonel in these days, but it was not long before
still another false report which added to the growing Polar legend.
As whispered that, when he got ordered of Sam's death, he had said grimly, those who lived
by the sword must die by the sword.
The loss of Sam had in fact touched Louis deeply.
He covered it with silence and a hurry turning to other topics when officers spoke
of his brother's death.
On Pavu-vu, the division intensified its work and swed it at war games on the beaches
and in the palm groves, there was a new watchword.
The Pelaloo, the next target.
So his brother, Lieutenant Colonel Sam Polar was killed and he got word about.
Hundred-only-hundred-thousand Marines that might seem like a lot, but that's not a lot.
You consider the tasks they had before them.
So now they're heading to Pelaloo, the next target.
When the big fleet left for the Polars to follow the bombardment ships, there was but
a single somber note.
A board one of the vessels were stacks of many hundreds of white wooden crosses far more
than a two-day supply.
Two days from Pelaloo, there was a report from the underwater demolition teams who's
met at boldly swam into shore and inspected, jab defences.
Nothing serious they said the way would be cleared.
Polars' mind was not relieved.
He had never before felt pessimism at the opening of a battle.
Now we're starting the invasion.
There was no moon.
The sky was filled with stars and there was not a trace of cloud.
Toward the dawn of September 15, the transports had come into position.
All the horizon, the guns, the guns of the fleet spurred in fire.
For hours the thunder was unbroken, but as gray-edge sky, as gray-edge the sky, pace,
slowed and the fire became disultry.
The island was invisible.
The troops had breakfast before daylight, staking eggs again.
When the first of them came to the decks, the chain of the Polars lay in a black silhouette
across the sea.
There was a moderate swell, a breeze sprang up coming from the island of Pelaloo.
The guns broke into a full cry once more and the final shelling struck target.
The two assault battalions of the first Marines went aboard the big landing vehicles on
the decks.
The moths of the ships clanked open in the amphibious tractors were spewed forth, milling
as they formed lines ready to move forward toward the breach.
They were 4,000 yards out.
Vast flights of planes came over.
Weeling in from all directions, they dived, bombed and climbed over Pelaloo for an hour
or more and soon after the first of the bombs fell a slow, hesitant curtain gathered over
the land.
It seemed impossible that anything living could have endured, but at last as the assault began,
a puff of anti-aircraft smoke flowered in the sky and a plane dropped in flames.
Just before 830, the first wave started shoreward.
Pelaloo watched for the signal flag to dip from the yard arm of a control boat in his
front.
The amtrecks fomed away on the broad wakes.
At almost 830 precisely, the vehicle ground on the sand, Polar never forgot the scene.
I went up over the side as fast as I could, scrambled and ran like hell at least 25 yards
before I hit the beach flat down.
When I looked back to the amtrak, I saw 4 or 5 shells hit it all at once.
A few men were killed getting out too slow, but most of them were saved because they
got out before we stopped moving.
We lost our communications officer.
His leg was blown off and he couldn't be saved.
I looked down the beach and saw a mess.
Every damned amtrak in our wave had been destroyed in the water by the enemy or shot
the pieces the minute it landed.
I tried to get a line set up for defense.
The wiremen were there fast as soon as I was doing their job without further orders.
And we lost several of them in the hop fire.
Every puttune leader was trying to form a line of his own.
Just as I was.
Runners were going up and down the beach as we tried to get organized.
That big promatory on my left hadn't been touched by all the ship's guns and planes.
And we got a whirlwind of machine gun and anti-tank fire.
Polar second battalion drove through a heavy growth of woods now torn by the shelling and
by 930 ad driven 350 yards ahead.
To the edge of the airfield, they tied on the line of the fifth Marines.
Casualties were reported as heavy but the trial of the second had only begun.
The new position was faced by an obstacle marked on none of the invasion maps.
A sheer coral ridge whose sides were honeycomb with Japanese positions from foxholes to
gigantic dugouts of reinforced steel and concrete.
Some of them with four levels, each of which could be closed off with steel doors.
For eight hours the regiment endured the most savage fighting of the Pacific War.
General Smith had come a short 1130 a.m.
When the phone line was spliced, spliced late in the afternoon and he talked with Polar
he had only one.
He had only a com report.
We're dug in solid and we've got the 01 phase line all right.
Polar night made no mention of especially heavy casualties or of need for help.
It was estimated that the first Marines had lost 500 men during the day.
The first water that had come ashore and oil drums and was foul.
Polar shouted his rage to the officers on the ships, bellowing for new supplies.
Here's Polar's report.
Enemy well dug in, opposition strong, little damage done by our preliminary fire, hard
fight ahead, casualties over 20%.
I've ordered no man to be evacuated unless from bullet or shell wounds, request further
supply, fresh water, are still und drinkable, men wretched.
Polar called division and talked with Colonel Seld in the chief of staff.
He remembered the year the conversation years later.
Johnny half my regiment has gone, I've got to have replacements if I'm to carry out division
orders tomorrow morning.
You know we have no replacements, Louis.
I told you before we came ashore that we should have at least one regiment reserve.
We're not fighting a third.
We're not fighting a third of the men we brought in.
All these damn specialists you brought.
Anything wrong with your orders, Louis?
No.
I'm ready to go ahead, but you know my casualties are 50%.
What do you want me to do?
Give me some of those 17,000 men on the beach.
You can't have them, they're not trained in for infantry, given to me and by nightfall
tomorrow they'll be trained in infantry.
Polar went out with a runner stumbling through the night to find post of his battalion commanders
and pass on the order.
We press attack at 80 clock in the morning, no change, full speed, use every man.
He fell more than once and cut himself on the coral.
He left for an order and others left at headquarters noticed that the Colonel was beginning
to limp and that his left leg is swollen.
Seldon called back, pulled in.
You got my orders okay?
Yes, you need an explain further.
I just came back from my battalions.
We're going to take ground tomorrow without replacements.
We're willing to try, but don't forget we're just going to add 10 or 15% to our casualties.
In the sun rose on September 18th, 200 of the 473 men in Polar's third battalion were
headquarters personnel, many frontline units had been decimated.
Long before noon, there were cases of heat prostration, the blazing sun was hotter than ever.
Faces and lips were cracked and bleeding.
Salt pills became scarce again.
Polar was optimistic, for they started the attack from high ground, but the crucial
days still lay ahead.
Tank atoms came by Polar's command post and found him half-clad and filthy, sweat soaked
trousers with a heavy beard on his face.
I'm coming back this afternoon, Colonel.
Do you want me to bring you a fresh uniform?
Hell, Hank, I've got no time for that.
Every man in the outfit will get clean before I do.
Lieutenant Colonel Lou Walt, now the executive officer of the fifth Marine saw Polar at
a command conference during the day.
He was absolutely sick over the loss of his men.
The enemy fought hand-to-hand until daylight, beating off charges that no survivor could
count.
As first light spilled over the ridge, the shrunken company beat back the last Japanese
attack with stones, ammunition boxes, bare fists, and bayonets.
Several of the enemy were flung bodily off the cliff and fell shrieking into the splintered
coral below.
But they did it.
At the end of the day, the regiment reported a total of 1,878 men lost since day.
The fighting went on without a break until September 23rd when the first Marines rested
in lines without advancing.
They beat off several counterattacks and patrols pushed out 1,000 yards down the west coast
without serious opposition.
The regiment was relieved at 2pm of this day by the 320 first regiment of the 81st Army
Division.
The new commander took one look at the forward command post Polar at a occupied and ordered
it moved more than 1,000 yards to the rear.
In nine days on the line, Polar's regiment had eliminated one major blockhouse and 144 defended
caves in lesser pill boxes.
Division reported that 3,942 Japanese had been killed in the regiment's zone.
No enemy had been captured.
Polar's total casualty of men were 56%.
The highest regimental losses in the history of the corps.
First battalion had lost 71%.
The second 56% the third 55%.
Headquarters and weapons companies 32%.
General Smith, who walked the terrain after it was finally captured, said it seemed impossible
that men could have moved forward against the intricate and mutually supporting defenses.
The Japanese had set up.
It can only be explained as a reflection of the determination and aggressive leadership
of Colonel Polar.
Now, Polar, that's the last major combat for Polar.
Was it Pelaloo?
He ends up going back to the states for a bit and while he's back on the states, back
in the states, America drops the atomic bombs on Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the war is over
and shortly thereafter, they order General Polar to our Colonel Polar at this time to the
reserves.
Now, like I said, he didn't get along with some people, especially up the chain of command.
And he didn't want to be sent to the reserves because that's not what a career marine
wants to do.
So here we go back to the book.
Colonel, you've been ordered to reserve duty in New Orleans.
It's a big district.
You know, and very important to the corps.
Polar was not misled.
He realized what it meant to be shown to reserve duty into a side pocket.
Many marine career had ended that way.
One of the inevitable problems with the Marine Corps, and this is Polar talking, one
of the inevitable problems with the Marine Corps or any other military services that staff
officers take over the minute of war is ended.
The combat people run things when the chips are down and the country's life is at stake,
but when the gun stop, nobody's got use for a combat man.
The staff officers are like rats.
They stream out of hiding and take over.
It's true.
Just watch what happens to paperwork.
God in peacetime, they'll put out enough to sink a small, sized nation into the sea.
And when the war breaks out, most of it just naturally stops.
That's the way they do everything.
There must be a staff of people, of course, or we never get everything done.
But if we don't stop this empire building of staff, somebody's going to come along
and lick us one of these days will be so nodded and red-daped that we can't move.
Well, we've never seen that seal-team thing.
You put it on a T-shirt or something, but it's Freddy the frog, the little symbol of the frog
man, the Freddy the frog, and he's like in a glass jar.
Or a glass casing.
And it says in case of war break glass, because you don't want the guy around when peacetime
is going on.
Right.
That's what that's what chess.
That's another chess-ty-puller, right?
They don't want him during peacetime, because he's...causes, he speaks up.
Well, peacetime lasts that long.
On June 25th, 1950, North Korean troops poured across the 38th Paradella in strength and
war had returned.
Polar recognized all the signs.
He immediately asked for a modification of his orders and said urgently to headquarters
attention is invited to the fact that I served as an officer in Haiti in Nicaragua and
in the Pacific Theater for eight years prior to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, this
experience will prove a value in an assignment to combat duty in Korea.
Well, the senior personnel know that and he gets what he asked for.
Polar arrived in Southern California in the heat of late July and found San Diego in
area of Bedlam.
Marine reservists thronged in every corner of the nation's thousands of vehicle
storage since World War II were being overhauled and driven to port.
Trains bore regulars from the east coast, unattached officers came from everywhere without
a call volunteers for war.
The first Marine Division was being created almost from scratch.
So they had dismantled so much of the service after World War II and now they've got
to rebuild it all very quick.
They do.
They talk about it in the book.
I skip over that, but we know what that consists of hardcore training, getting people
ready for war.
Finally, they get, he gets to Japan and they're waiting now to go in Korea into Korea.
Polar hailed a passing medical corpsman and went to a nearby army hospital.
I want to talk with some of the casualties.
I've got to find out what's happening in Korea.
He went up in an elevator with an army doctor who seemed on point on the point of tears,
going to the words and see those kids and you'll soon know more about more than you
want about Korea.
Take a look at all the self-inflicted wounds we've got and those kids are so green.
They don't even realize how obvious it is, just from the powder burns.
Polar walked down many rows of beds, talking with the men, many of them frightened and broken
and heard their tales of Korea.
Polar was sobered, but not despair.
He told some young, younger officers that night, there's nothing wrong with American
kids.
Their leadership has just all gone to hell.
There's a whole hospital full of babies you might say.
They were never given a chance to grow into men.
It won't be that way with our Marines.
I'll tell you that.
You're prepared for D-Day in Inchon, to one of the biggest amphibious operations.
They're getting ready for that and he has a little chat with his officers.
We're the most fortunate of men.
Most time, professional soldiers have to wait 25 years or more for a war.
But here we are with only five years wait for this one.
During that time, we've sat on our fat, duff, strong, or pay.
Now we're getting a chance to earn it to show the taxpayers where a worth it.
We're going to work at our trade for a little while.
We live by the sword and if necessary, we'll be ready to die by the sword.
Good luck.
I'll see you ashore.
And listen up old men.
You have something to say to your officers or men, make it snappy.
The fewer words the better.
They won't believe it if you shoot bull.
When you face ranks of men and try that, you can hear them sign despair when you open
your mouth if they sense you're a phony.
They can usually look at you and tell.
Maybe it doesn't sound like it, but it's an important thing in a Marines career.
Don't try and.
Don't try and what does he call it?
Shoot bull.
Don't try and shoot bull.
Tell the boys what's going on for real.
They see right through you.
Road is wife a letter before he leaves.
Sweet.
I will be unable to write you again for a few days, but you, Virginia, Virginia, Mac,
Martha Lee and Lewis, those are his kids.
We'll be constantly in my thoughts.
And they God bless you, always, and provide for you, giving you much happiness and useful
lives.
You, my children, must take advantage of all opportunities and develop into good Christians,
much love to all of you.
I love you, Virginia.
I always have.
And I always will.
You are going to in John.
By 530 in the afternoon when the first waves the Marines reach the shore, the men of
the fleet could no longer see in John.
Hundreds of boats milled in the outer harbor in their turn, crossing the embarkation line
and moving toward land where they disappeared into a bank of smoke and dust.
Pulling wind into his objective at Blue Beach with the third wave in a twilight hasened
but hastened by smoke, Paul, and climbed a 15 foot sea wall in one of the scaling ladders
improvised on a ship in route.
They meet some fairly light resistance.
Here's what Pauler says, it won't amount to much tonight.
We took him by surprise.
Pauler's casualties had been light and the divisions total for the day was only 20 killed
in 170 wounded.
Pauler was awake at 330 a.m. calling the battalion commander making plans for an attack
at dawn.
Pauler's swift drive, hurried a joining forces in an effort to keep pace, capped and
raised styles of ridges battalion saw that the secret was not only in Pauler's incisive
orders.
He gave us pride in some way I can't describe.
All of us had heard hundreds of stories about him.
And today that we couldn't actually see him doing great things, he kept building up on
morale higher and higher just by being there.
When we were moving up two companies from the adjoining battalions marched to breast and
got a little mixed, one of the kid yelled, one of the kids yelled, what, what outfit are
you with, Mac?
Fifth Marines, how about you?
I got a better.
I'm in Polars.
The troops in the first thought of the old man before they thought of their regimental
number.
By September 17th, D. Day plus two, General MacArthur was impatient to go ashore from
the command ship Mount McKinley.
He saw that his blow to Korea cut it into two and it taken the enemy by surprise and
that chances of ending the war were good.
He radioed Vice Admiral Arthur D. Strubel, the task force commander after the first
good news from shore, the Navy and Marines have never shown more brightly than this
morning, MacArthur.
On one of the fiery days of the drive towards Seoul, a popular chaplain, father, Keating,
captured five North Korean soldiers and herded them along as prisoners.
He hailed a passing Marine Jeep driven by private wolf.
On take these prisoners off my hands and get them to the rear before their hurt.
I can't father, I'm running ammo into the edge of town and they're getting low.
I can't stop to do it.
Private, that's an order.
Take them over.
Wolf looked rearward at the burning city.
You mean they're mine now under my responsibility?
Yes.
Wolf pulled up a light machine gun and sprayed the troops.
sprayed the group killing all five prisoners.
The outraged Keating went to polar and demanded action.
Colonel Lisson's carefully ordered Wolf arrested and the priest went away, content that
he had done as duty.
Ten minutes later, polar acetone, what outfit was it that lost all those boys last night?
Barrow's company, sir.
All right.
Give that boy wolf a bar and send him up there.
Once took the story to his cronies as an example of the military justice at its best,
it spread through the outfit to become part of the polar legend.
Yeah.
That seems like a pretty square the way I think to do.
There's like a platoon that's getting completely destroyed and they've taken a bunch
of casualties and you got this kid that did something wrong.
And we could arrest him and put him in prison or whatever, and we could send him up to
fight.
Polar sons of up to fight.
In the seven days since D.A. there had been a 1,148 Marine casualties, 145 of these killed
20 more died of wounds and five were missing.
The North Koreans, Polar Sedan, his deep drawing voice are defending the city in such
a way as to force us to destroy it.
There's a billion dollars worth of publicity in this.
So this is when they're trying to get into Seoul and the North Koreans are defending Seoul
very hard and polar basically has to get ultra aggressive in trying to take Seoul.
Back to the book, the fire of artillery and mortars had set the record for the Korean war,
the four battalions of artillery had fired all shells at hand and had depleted and nearby
Army dump.
The four point two mortars had fired 326 rounds and the big 81, 650 rounds.
The 50 caliber machine guns had used 120 boxes or 30,000 rounds.
The Knights battled, put Lieutenant Joe Fisher, Lieutenant Joe Fisher's item company to
the test.
Fisher dug in for the night on an isolated hill in the city's factory district, overlooking
the roadblock which was on his left flank.
The midnight to dawn he beat off waves of attack.
Fisher called for artillery at the same time.
Other frontline commanders asked for help.
But between barrages from the North Korean swept up Fisher's hill in a bonsai charges
urged by shrill force commanders in their rear.
Item companies weapons including machine guns fired at top speed and bodies piled up
below them toward the end when the attacks weekend.
The fight turned into a turkey shoot and Fisher's men slaughtered the enemy.
They were glad to see the sunrise.
Fisher never forgot that daybreak.
I looked down the hill behind me and saw a man hurring up towards our position.
I could see that he wasn't lugging any ammunition and thought it must be an important message
too hot for the radio.
Then I saw that it was Colonel Polar's runner and he had brought us a bottle of black
and white scotch.
My God, were we glad to see that.
It was passed down to the Paltoon with the most casualties and they rationed out to those
who needed it most.
We knew then that the old man was thinking of us and in fact never forgot us.
Polar came upon Marines dug in around a barricade taken cover from fire down the street.
He walked among them with the pipe stub and his mouth.
Get up boys, get up and go.
That's the quickest way to get it over.
If you're going to get it, you can get it in holes too.
The line moved.
Joe Fisher saw Polar in the street.
He was going along where the fire was heaviest.
Just like he was back in Pendleton.
As if he didn't know there was a fight within miles.
I couldn't express how much good it did me and my troops to see him steady like that.
Just puffing that pipe.
It made us feel like we could do no less than he did.
If there has ever been another one like him in the Marine Corps, I never saw him in my
day.
Bill Faringo, the veteran who is the field sergeant major had a glimpse of the Colonel.
It was like going through hell passing down that soul street and who should we pass in
the middle of it but chesty.
It was so hot that I fought the grenades and ammunition.
We carried wood explode.
The flames almost met over our heads from the burning houses, but the Colonel didn't
seem in the least concerned.
It gave us an extra push.
One of the most they wrap up this in-challenged invasion.
One of the most demanding operations in Marine history had ended.
The division had sustained 2,430 casualties, 414 of them dead.
Of this total, 1,064 had been in the last five days in the streets of Seoul and its
outskirts.
His fifth Marines had the worst of it with 1,038 casualties, 177 dead.
Polar had a total of 787 with 92 dead.
Litsonberg, 368, 72 dead.
Polar wrote another letter to his wife.
Everything is quiet now and I have a little to do except get my reports prepared and submitted.
I wish I had a flare for writing, as then I am certain this regiment would get the credit
do when the history of this operation is finally written.
Now everyone knows, but in a few years what is written will govern.
Rest assured that I will do a better job of getting the facts in my reports than I did
in the past war.
I will also claim everything do the regiment.
Many times I have regretted that my English education was cut short during the first
war.
Please do your best to impress upon our children the necessity of taking advantage of every
opportunity in this hard old world of ours.
He recognized this sad thing.
It is the reality though.
If you are in a leadership position in the military, you have to be able to write well.
He regrets that he wasn't a little better at it.
Intention in the English class folks.
Polar Winners Shore, they were back at sea, Polar Winners Shore, and one of major treadwell's
landing craft to be met broadly by a grinning Oliver Smith.
Congratulations, Louis, you made it.
Your board has selected you for Brigadier.
Polar Wagged is head.
By God if it hadn't been for this war, I had never got in that star.
It was a mild celebration of Shore that night for the new general to be.
He picked up his first star, as a general.
Like he said, if it wasn't for the, you know, he'd been put down in some reserve unit
new Orleans.
He wasn't going to make general there.
But the case of war, break glass.
Now he makes general.
Polar wrote home daily.
He sent Virginia $5 check for her good school in Mark.
You're good school marks, adding some parental advice.
I'm very proud of my family and expected to do well plus in everything you undertake.
The difference between success and failure in this life of ours is mostly hard work.
So you must constantly work to try and improve yourself.
I think we could just frame that statement.
On November 10th, the Marine Corps's birthday, Polar used a captured North Korean sword to slice
a hundred pound cake.
He shouted to his troops after he got done delivering the article from a manual.
He shouted out, now that that's complied with, I want to tell you something straight.
Just do one thing for me.
Write your people back home and tell them there's one hell of a damn war going on
out here and that the Raggedy-tailed North Koreans have been whipping a lot of so-called
Get-American troops and may do it again.
Tell them there's no secret weapon for our country but to get hard to get in there
and fight.
I want you to make them understand.
Our country won't go on forever if we stay as soft as we are now.
There won't be any America because some foreign soldier would invade us and take our
women and breed a hard year race.
Yeah, there you go.
He's not playing around.
Is it interesting that we hear the same things now?
Like, America's getting soft and that's what Polar was, General Polar was saying.
After the Marines had taken soul, the 8th Army of the United Nations forces had driven
through the capital moving rapidly northward along the Korean coasts.
To meet them, Chinese Communist armies had marched 1,800 miles northward since
Migrant Mid-August.
The Chinese strategist had first concentrated against the 8th Army position in the northwest
and hills but when the Marines landed, they hurriedly switched much of the power to meet
the meat and overwhelm them in the chosen reservoir.
The Chinese drove between the Marines and the 8th Army and maneuvered into a position
from which they could attack each force at will.
So, podcast number 53, colders in hell is about the chosen reservoir and there's another
one I forget the number but we've done two podcasts about the chosen reservoir.
Listen to those.
I'm going to touch on it here as well.
On the hills on every side of the perimeter, Chinese fire was heavy during the day.
The enemy blew a tunnel and a bridge on the railroad below, co-to-re-position, cutting
the line to ham-hung and the Marine basins on the sea.
For two days, Polar called in heavy air strikes upon concentrations of Chinese in the
surrounding hills.
Things were even worse than the two positions to the north of Polar.
At least six Chinese divisions had been identified in the area where Murray and Litson
Berg fought.
On November 26, these two posts lost 95 dead and 543 wounded in night long attacks.
Haggaru was preparing to fight for its life.
An offensive launched by the fifth Marines was called off after the day's grim news from
the west.
The 8th Army had collapsed.
One wing of it was torn to pieces and the Chinese were slashing deep into the lines.
This must now defend themselves in an enemy free, against an enemy free to approach from
any direction through the frozen mountains.
The night of November 27 tested the men at Udomni when the three Chinese division
divisions fell upon two Marine regiments.
The enemy cut the road to Haggaru and sent their assault battalions in quilted uniforms
and sneakers into the Marine lines with disregard for casualties.
The first waves were driven off with great losses but the others were thrown into thrown
in through the night and the next.
To the dismay of the Chinese commanders, not even the development of Marine command post
slowed the tempo of fighting and the American stage vicious counter attacks even when many
platoons had been reduced to the size of squads.
There were not enough tent from Marine wounded and the less seriously hurt were piled
outside close together for warmth covered with straw as doctors worked over the more than
500 casualties.
It now became clear that the three Marine positions in the chosen area were surrounded.
Polar's reaction to the dread news was given to newspaper men who flew into Coatoree.
There's what Polar said, we've been looking for the enemy for several days now, we finally
found them, we're surrounded.
That simplifies our problem of getting these people and killing them.
Yeah, you wonder, there's no wonder why this guy's a legend.
Polar prepared to open the road to Haggaru with Task Force Drysdale, a British commando
unit of Royal Marines under Lieutenant Douglas Drysdale accompanied by Captain Carl Citer's
company of Ridges Battalion and a company from the 31st Army Regiment which had come in.
The road had been blocked in several places, two bridges were out and the Chinese squarmed
on heights overlooking the route.
The party met bitter opposition and within a few minutes had 14 casualties in three hours
and half, three hours and a half, they moved only two miles with eight more to go.
Polar sent tanks to support and men came down from the hills to walk with them.
They fought through road blocks and around a blown bridge but a dusk in narrowed
defile.
The metronam bush and took serious casualties.
By radio, Polar, Oliver Smith and Drysdale agreed that the unit must push on to Haggaru
whatever the cost. The Royal Marines finally reached Haggaru perimeter at 1.30am with 90 of its 255
men casualties. Citer had 63, only 70 of the 210 Army men made it.
A truck column sent behind this ill-fated party was virtually destroyed after a long fight
and parlay with the Chinese who captured all the trucks and most of the men.
The survivors of this party were crucial to the defense of Haggaru.
They're added firepower, helped turn back another massive Chinese attack.
The companies of Citer and Joe Fisher killed the enemy in droves and by the next dawn,
their lines, they'll bent, had held.
On the night of December 7, the bulk of the division was in Polar's perimeter after the 38-hour
battle from Haggaru. The cost 103 dead, 506 wounded, 7 missing.
But now the force of 10,000 and its 1000 vehicles was at Citerri. The perimeter could hardly
contain them all. After supper, the Colonel disappeared. Only Sergeant Jones and I haven't
mentioned much about Sergeant Jones. He's like, he's, he's Polar's right hand man through this
through all kinds of crazy stuff. And Sergeant Jones, only Sergeant Jones knew where he was.
The old man would sneak off with Body and go up into the lines, climbing right up into those
dams, straight up hills, all the ice and rock going from hold to hole for half the night. He would
go to every man he could find in a fox hole and say, how you doing old man, what's your field
of fire? Who's on your flank? You getting enough chow? On the way back, he would check the warming
tense to see if there'd been casualties and how the men were doing. Early on December 8,
the Marines began clearing the ridges on either side of the road, south, but the going was slow
and the trucks bearing the bridge sections made little project progress. A funeral for 117
Marines in a common grave brought the day to an end in the perimeter. It was a scene that lived
in Polar's memory, the burial of frozen bodies by a tank battalion which crushed them under
frozen ground. A Marine photographer took movies of the burial. Polar said, how I wish our
people could have seen the site to see just what happened to us in Korea. He later heard that army
censorship in Washington kept the film from the public. And now they're, again, that's very
compressed story, but they're breaking out and they're heading south, getting heading back to the
scene back to safety out of the out of being surrounded. Back to the book, the 5th and 7th
Marines had now passed through Polar's ranks and the first was the rear guard for the entire
division responsible for covering the withdrawal down the frozen loops of the road.
Polar started down and hundreds of men saw him for he thought that his job had only begun.
He shouted to every passing unit to cheer the men yelling until he was horse. Don't forget
that your first Marines, not all the communists and hell can overrun you.
When he got back, reporters found him and they wanted a statement from him. And he said,
remember, whatever you write, this was no retreat. All that happened was we found more Chinese
behind us than in front of us so we about faced and attacked. Smith recommended Polar for a
Navy Cross for his work in the reservoir campaign. His fifth and a Marine Corps record.
Polar's letter to his wife revealed his unusual concern for his family and the midst of the
campaigning. Please tell Lewis that's his son. Please tell Lewis that I will finally come home
and teach him how to shoot and many other things that boys and men must know. Tell him to be patient
and the swords and the helmet I send him will arrive. Tell him to change his bait in the rabbit
trap every few days. A piece of apple lettuce carrot celery turn up and he must not go near the
trap or touch it except to change the bait when the door is sprung. Also he must keep the dog away from it.
20 still on his boy. He continues on and a letter to his wife. I haven't minded the hardships
here but the killing and crippling of young men is awful. Due to the weather, our wounded die,
blood plasma freezes before it can be administered. I realized that this war is for harder
on you than it has beyond me than it has been on me and I'm sorry to have caused you all the worry
and pain. And he goes on to say, the Pentagon is largely responsible for this mess out here.
They weren't even given. They were given the money to provide us and train an army. When I entered
the service, the regulation stated that the object of all military training is success in battle.
This short sentence has been rewritten on three pages and I defy anyone to read over three or
more times and then explained to me what the object of military training is.
Even the Pentagon has not the slightest idea why they're commanding forces of the United States.
In fact out here, we wonder if we are part of the United States.
And here he talks about his son again telling his wife, I will not influence my son as
to choosing a profession. It will be up to him. I will not even recommend the service. I've
had to stand with my mouth closed on too many occasions and then carry out orders from too many
half-wits. So as much as he loves the Marine Corps and the military in the country, he's saying
look, I might not even, I'm not going to even recommend that my son joins. He gets his pinning of his
star. Finally, he's actually being officially made a general and he makes a speech. All the credit
for this star belongs to the non-combs, junior officers and enlisted men. You all know that.
I've tried to do my duty, but we'd never get anywhere except for you fellows in the ranks. This is a
great regimen and it's going to hurt me to leave you. I'll never forget you. To the man of task force,
polar, he also issued a formal memorandum in compliance with orders. I am today leaving this command
for assignment as division commander, assistant division commander. It is not without misgivings
and a certain reluctance that I carry out these orders. All of you officers in mental like
realize I am sure what the first Marine regimen has meant to me. I ask one more thing of you.
Give my successor the same full measure of cooperation and willingness. You have always given me
and the first Marines will be worthy of the name it is already one. I first commanded you on new
Britain later on the bloody hills of Peleu and it has been my honor to command you in Korea
where by your deeds you captured the city of Seoul then successfully covered the withdrawal of
our division from the chosen reservoir area. I shall look to future to your future movements and
shall expect to hear and see still greater deeds and higher reputation one on the field of battle.
I talked a little bit about the dichotomy and his reputation.
Pollars reputation grew among the men but Sergeant Jones noted that the old man was regarded as a
man-eater. They would ask Bodian me over and over how the hell we kept our stripes. They thought he
chewed on people all the time and when there was a fight recklessly exposed his people.
And of course we knew better. It was hard to convince guys who had heard so much about him but didn't
really know him. When you got close to him you found he had a heart as big as all outdoors.
They continued to not make friends up the chain of command. We can't help to win. We can't
hope to win future wars and we got the hell beat out of us in Korea unless we have discipline
and it's going to take some brutality to get it. As last days in Korea we're frustrating to
pull her who found things suddenly different. He wrote his wife. Now age has probably changed me.
And the core has changed too. I suppose to man being what he is today. I never thought this change
could or would happen. Maybe I have been wrong from the beginning. Now he gets back to America.
And of course there's a big bunch of reporters waiting for him and they kind of know they kind of know
he's got a mouth right so they're they're fired up to talk to him. And
he starts talking to the reporters and here we go. What the American people want to do is fight
a war without getting hurt. You can't do that anymore than you can go into a bar room
brawl without getting hurt. Unless the American people are willing to send their sons out to
fight in aggressor. There's just not going to be any United States. A bunch of foreign soldiers will
take over. Air power can't live up to its billing out here. Somebody not so much the aviators as
the aircraft manufacturers has sold the American people a bill of goods as to what air power can do.
From what I've seen one bomb will hit a section of railroad track and 100 bombs will missed
some of them by miles. The enemy puts coolies on the track with picks and shovels and in
24 hours they're rolling again. The answer is infantry. Our officer corps has had far too much
schooling and far too little combat experience. They can't learn war like that. Push button
war is as far off as in the days of Julius Caesar. The rifle hand grenade and bandat are still
the most important weapons. We are going to lose the next war if we don't get back to them. Why
half our infantry out there is still armed with carbines against the enemy with their fine Russian
rifles. He then turned on the training of Marines which could be which he would soon be conducting
at Camp Pendleton. We've got to get him tougher to survive for all these girls out of camp. Get
rid of the ice cream and candy. Get some pride in them. That's what we need most of all. Pride.
A reporter piped up. What do you think of the protest of the women's Christian temperance union
over sending free beer to the troops? It's news to me, Polar said, but if a few cans of beer
or snort of whiskey will make the men fight better, it might not be a bad idea. At least it's
better than ice cream and all this soft training. There's too much damn recreation and military training.
We should have only one purpose to fight and win. They're not being taught that now.
So, he's an outspoken guy. He was astonished the next day to see the following headlines.
Major general wants beer and whiskey for the troops. Ice cream, G.I.s lambasted by Polar,
Marine General Blast the Air Force. The fear reached across the nation. There was actually protests
against general Polar. Here's, there's, they've actually put one of these letters in the book.
We hear by petition to the, to the government or to the Pentagon. We hear by petition to
you to use every ounce of influence that you possess to keep Brigadier general polar from
inaugurating his beer and whiskey campaign in US military training camps.
But the panic did die down and he got to the business of training Marines.
And in August of 1953, Polar took examinations from major general that's two star,
the board which chose the new group of officers of rank approved him unanimously.
In July of 1954, he was sent to Camp Ligion to lead second division. His first major
peacetime troop command.
There was a little, an incident, hellf issue.
And one of the guys called up for general polar his wife and said brace yourself. We've taken
Lewis to the hospital. They can't say what's wrong. He looks pretty sick.
And he basically, he gets pretty sick. He kind of recovers from it. But the, like I said,
this guy made enemies. So here we go back to the book and this is Polar talking. I could see
then what the game was. They were going to retire me despite all, all the doctors had said
back at Ligion. They pulled me up to Washington to get rid of me. I didn't mind retiring all that
much, but the way they did it made me sore. I had all the service and honors. I needed or wanted.
I'd come all the way from private to major general. But I was boiling mad about this thing. I saw
lots of officers around Washington and poor condition than I was, but that wasn't going to matter.
He remained in the hospital in the thested for about two weeks. After many consultations,
the doctors found him unfit for duty. He wrote his wife, daily from his room on the 16th floor.
Please do not worry. We must take things as they come in life. There doesn't seem much we can do
to change events. So, yeah, just to tell that story a little bit more, he had like a,
some got to health this. It wasn't, I don't know what it was and they didn't really seem to know
what it was. But then he kind of recovered from it and he was back in his job and then they pulled
him up to Bethesda and to give him a bunch of screenings and tests and see if he was fit for duty
and they found that he was unfit for duty. So, that's it. That's how it ended. That's how it's
career ended. A day or so before he went out, there was a party in the non-commissioned officers
club on base. Polar had declined and offered from the officers club, but he could not turn down
the enlisted men. It began as an intimate party, but when Polar arrived, he found a crowd of more
than 5,000 who'd come to say goodbye. 20 pigs were barbecued and there was feasting and drinking
until late in the night. The general made one of his shirt, Burst talks when they shouted for him
and Sergeant Orville Jones remembered it. He said, only men, I'd rather be toting a rifle in a rear
rank than going out now as lieutenant general. Now if you're a Marine, you're all Marine. You'll put
the corps above your family, your country, even God and all else in some cases. You stick to your
corps. God bless you. Polar had broken tradition to the last. It was unwritten regulation that the
senior Marine officer on the post would pin Polar's third star on his shoulder as he retired,
but Polar had called for Bob Norris the senior non-commissioned officer and the oldest man
available who had served with him. The reporter who followed him got a formal statement. In
having Sergeant Major Norris attached my third star at my retirement, I wanted to show my great
admiration and appreciation to the enlisted men and junior officers of the Marine Corps. I fully
realize that without the help of the enlisted men, I'd never have risen from private to lieutenant general.
I've commanded everything from a squad to a division and without the help of men and junior officers,
these units would never have gone forward and achieved their objective regardless of almost certain
death. My only regret is that things now are, I will not be present for the next war.
I also want to express my regret at the deaths of many hundreds of Marines and the crippling and
maiming of other hundreds who followed me blindly into battle. Again, I would like to thank all
Marines for their feelings toward me. Louis, Polar went home to Virginia. It was just 37 years,
four months and two days since he had boarded the train in South Carolina. First South Carolina
to exchange the uniform of a VMI cadet for that of a Marine Corps boot. But his career with the
Marines wasn't quite over. Back to the book on a dimly lit night of April 8, 1956,
a platoon of marine recruits at Paris Island South Carolina was marched into a title arm of
broad river by 31-year-old veteran drill instructor staff sergeant Matthew C. McIllum.
Six recruits drowned. The common don, General Randolph, McCall, paid immediately,
relieved the commanding officer of the recruit depot and told Congress that McIllum
would be punished to the full extent allowed by our uniform code of military justice.
There was a nationwide outcry from the press, pulpit and scores of civic organizations.
A court inquiredly, inquiry descended upon Paris Island. McIllum became a national
cause to celebrate a sailed by prohibitionists as a brutal drunkard, as a symbol of military
tyranny which must be destroyed, as a racist, bigot near duet. There were cries for harsh punishment,
even execution. Now, he ends up going to trial and for this trial, the defense brings in
Chess DiPolar, who we know believes in hard training. And here we go. This is a court scene.
Burman, who's the lawyer, used the general like a master's showman, the defense desires to call
to the stand of Lieutenant General Polar. Seviers, one of the lawyers, sir, how do you know the
accused? Polar, I don't know him except by his pictures and the newspapers and what I've
read about him. Then Burman took over and questioned the general about his careers in Marine.
Burman, how long were you in Korea? Polar, about nine months.
Burman, were you in combat? Yeah, were you decorated? Yeah, without going into any other,
any of your other decorations, isn't it true that you've received five Navy crosses? Correct.
Burman asked his opinion of the Marine Corps's mission. The definition of military training is
success in battle. In my opinion, that is the only objective of military training. It wouldn't
make any sense to have a military organization on the backs of the American taxpayers with any
other definition. I believe that ever since I was better Marine. What is the most important element
of that training? I'll quote Napoleon. He stated that the most important thing in military training
is discipline. Without discipline and army becomes a mob. Now then, in that context,
can you tell us whether you have an opinion based on your experience as to whether or not the training
in discipline is for all situations confined to lesson plan or syllabi or training regulations?
No. The training of a basic Marine is conducted almost entirely outside in the field on the
drill ground, on the rifle range. That kind of work. The Marine gets an idea of how the Marine
Corps's run during this training, but his training is outside work.
Can you tell us general of the things you learned here as a recruit? Well, the main thing
that I've remembered all my life is the definition of a spree decor.
Now my definition, the definition I was taught that I've always believed in,
is that a spree decor means love for one's military legion. In my case, the United States Marine
Corps. I also learned that this loyalty to one's corps travels both ways up and down.
And he continued through this trial. And that night, he went to the enlisted man's club
and big crowd, of course, was there. And they start shouting and yelling for him to speak and
find the Eastans up and says, I've talked enough for today. This will be my last request. Do your
duty and the Marine Corps will be as great as it has always been for another thousand years.
The applause was deafening. And he went back to his hometown of Saludah and he was not forgotten
there. There he was getting interviewed by a graduate student who was trying to learn about psychology
in the general said, I've never studied psychology. I had only one year of college and always thought
I would go back but enlisted instead. I think the Marine Corps is the best place to learn the art of war.
And then again, this reflects back people now say that America is getting soft and they
are youthful. So they're saying the same thing, everything's going bad and they have a panel of
experts to deal with the decline of the nation. And it's rising tide of juvenile delinquency.
The consensus, the consensus was that the country was going to hell in a hand bucket.
General Polar, while this big meeting is going on, General Polar stood and intended, and his
intended mildness of tone as usual came forth as a brazen war. I want you people to know
something, as long as we can get some decent leadership in our country, are youth to today
will be better men than their fathers or grandfathers. I saw enough in Korea to make sure of that.
Are four fathers at Valley Forge have been mentioned here tonight as they often are.
Well, I can tell you that Valley Forge was something like a picnic compared to what your
younger Americans went through at the chosen reservoir and they came out of it fine.
It was never anything like 25 below zero at Valley Forge either. I admit we don't seem to have
the proper leadership at the top, but there's nothing wrong with the kids today.
My wife and I follow the ideas, my mother used on her kids, making them study each night
after this after supper, and when they report that they have mastered their lessons,
quizzing them, our children don't need to be coddled and they shouldn't be condemned. A
above all for heaven's sake, let your sons alone and let them grow up to be men.
It's interesting that I would say that still applies in very many ways.
He also had people visiting him all the time and asking him questions and he was again.
He remained a outspoken guy. I'm afraid we haven't recognized the most important lesson from
Korea. The communists have developed a totally new kind of warfare, a warfare of whole peoples.
And under that no modern nation can be conquered. We saw something like that in China when
Japan was nibbling away at the mainland. The Japanese controlled only a square yard where a soldier stood
and nothing beyond that. In Korea, the reds improved on that. This is total warfare.
Yet small and scope and its design to neutralize our big nuclear weapons.
Look at Vietnam, the French outnumbered the communists 2-1, yet they were massacred.
If we don't design some way to meet this, they'll whip us in the end. Don't forget that regular
armies have never fared well in irregular warfare. That lesson was old when Rome fell.
It's amazing that he's saying this. It's just a man that the Frenchman would be,
we don't think we were even in Vietnam yet. In fact, we weren't Vietnam yet when he's making these statements.
We didn't pay attention to it.
Finally, he goes to a, and there was some kind of a rift between him and the first Marine Division
Association and they sorted out that rift and he went to a big reunion of the Marine Corps,
the first Marine Division Association. Back to the book, General Smith blanked against the spotlight
and turned to the blackness at the far end of the table. I now give you
Chestee and the roar, the roar was so loud at drowned out the speakers' voice and shook the walls.
The spotlight swung to the last place at the table to reveal polar and a linen suit waving his hand
and flashing his broad crooked grin. As the clamor increased, he marched to the microphone and started
in a bobbing circle of light. General Smith shouted to the tempest of the sound. I see you all
know Chestee Polar. Men in the crowd danced among the tables, world each other about and pounded
their neighbors on the backs, some climbed on their chairs, shouting wordlessly, tears streaming
on their cheeks. Others hammered the table with Kotlery or embraced women who were staring
in cregiously at Polar. The men broke into chance, we want Chestee, we want Polar. They called for a
speech, but it was almost five minutes before the howling ceased. Polar faced them with a rise smile
that looked as if it had been run from his face by force. When quiet returned, he grasped the microphone
and called in an astonishingly penetrating voice. Marines! Pandemonium broke out once more as if he
had shouted some secret watch word whose implications were known only to these men. Half the crowd
was still on its feet a moment later when Polar could be heard again. If you believe the newspapers
and radio is in television, our country is in a hell of a shape. I don't believe it.
So long as we've got the first Marine Division, we'll be okay. The crowd shouted him in
silence again. He was tired when he got home to Saluda and that evening, Virginia Polar
found him pensive and destructive. Distracted. They sat on the screened porch looking out
into the Virginia dusk lit by fireflies. Lewis, is there anything you'd wish for?
Now that it's all over? Well, he said, I'd like to do it all over again. The whole thing.
She's side. More than that. More than anything. I'd like to see the face once again
of every Marine I've ever served with. And that is where this book ends. But that is not where
this story ends. Because as I mentioned, and as the book mentioned,
Jestie Polar had a son. And his son also became a Marine Corps officer, but his son
experienced in the Marine Corps in combat. And in life was very different from his fathers.
And I will tell that story in the next episode number 122, which is available now, so you can
listen to it immediately. Because these stories are linked. And so we are linking them in this series
of podcasts. And in the meantime, before you listen to that echo, if somebody wants to support
this podcast, can you briefly tell us how we can do it? Yes. Okay, briefly. Talk about the
story. Jocquistore. That is where you can get discipline equals freedom. Shirts.
Hats. Some rash guards on their hoodies. And Benes are on the way. Promise.
If not already. Just check on that. Jocquistore.com. There's a lot of good stuff on there for women.
And also kid stuff where you kid stuff. Also, when you get the book,
Marine Life of Chester Polar, I'm going to listen on the website in the book section. So in the
top, you click there. It says a books from episodes. And I'll have them all listed by episode.
Click through there. Good way to support. Take it Amazon. And you get your book and get whatever
else you're shopping for. Also, go to originmain.com. This is where you can get your gear. If you're
doing Jiu-Jitsu, when you do Jiu-Jitsu, this is where you can get your gear. All made in America.
There's also rash guards on there. And there's some hoodies and sweatpants and stuff on there.
Very comfortable. I went over that before. But nonetheless, go there.
Originmain.com. Also, originmain.com. Still, you can get Jocquistoplements. We have
milk. That's the new one. Is that available yet? Yes. Boom. There you go.
Malt protein powder. Mint chocolate chip. That's the good one. Taste good too. What else tastes good is
Jocquistoplement, which is a Nutropic pre-mission supplement. Good little bit of caffeine in there
not too much. A little bit. But for, you know, it has the physical supplementation benefits and
the cognitive supplemental benefits. So, get down called discipline. Also, joint warfare and
krill oil. Jocquistoplement. These supplements are for your joints. Don't neglect your joints.
It's a big deal. You can be able to lift 500 pounds. But if your elbows are jacked up,
you're not going to be able to lift up 500 pounds. Maybe you get a warm-up of lunch. But I don't know.
It'll mess you up. If you joints mess up, it's a big deal. Anyway, take care of your joints.
Super krill and joint warfare. All made in America, by the way. Everything in originmain.
Made in America. Also, for fitness gear, like kettlebells, the cool ones I get. Primalbells.
This is actually a lot of good stuff on on it.com. Go slash jockel. Good way to support. Good
work out here on there. Also, if you want jockel white tea, I'm going to put that on the store,
I think. Make it easy. But it's everywhere. Jockel white tea. You can get on. Jockel store.com
I'm going to put it on there soon. If not right now, Amazon. Of course. You can go to jockelte.com.
That's the main hub. And then, so if you're shopping in an actual little direct direct
you to where you can get it. I think that's where I'm put on the store. So we can ship it to
Canada and stuff. There's a whole thing. I'm making it easy. So actually go to jockelte.com.
That'll direct you to wherever you are and how are you and how are you and how are you
want to get it. Also, subscribe to the podcast. If you haven't already on iTunes,
Stitcher, Google Play, Spotify, wherever they have podcasts, subscribe. Good way to support. Also,
YouTube. Video version of this podcast also excerpts. Little lessons kind of just taken from each
episode and enhanced excerpts. If you're really into feeling the message, just
doctor, I'm almost a music or something like that. Also, psychological warfare. If you
know what that is, it's an album with tracks. Jockelte telling you, pragmatic advice how to get through
moments of weakness in your campaign against weakness. Like workouts. Like if you're
want to skip the workout or you want to slip on the diet just a little bit, just refer to one of
the tracks on there. Jockelte tell you, you know, hold the line as they say.
Check and you know, speaking of subscribe and subscribing. We have a new podcast out and it's
actually separate from this podcast. The new podcast is called the Warrior Kid podcast,
Ask Uncle Jake. Like I said, it's a separate channel. So you have to subscribe to it separately.
I did that because as you know from listening to this podcast, there's some podcasts that are
for very mature audiences and you wouldn't want to have your kid listening to that, you know,
a kid podcast and all of a sudden a very violent podcast comes on. So we separated them,
the Warrior Kid podcast questions for Uncle Jake and I think Uncle Jake has lessons for everyone.
We're going to listen to each other. Yeah. You know, I think teachers and parents and big-tem would
want to listen to that as well. Yeah. Got some great feedback so far on it. So that's called the Warrior
Kid podcast. And on top of that, there's a new Warrior Kid book. It's called Mark's Mission.
If you actually want it, you should order it now through whatever channel you want to order it
from. Go to your local bookstore, go to Amazon, go to Barnes and Noble order it. So that you
have it when it comes out so that the publisher knows how many to make. Because otherwise the publisher
thinks, oh, well, we won't make that many of them because there's not that many people that, you know,
we're going to buy this in the wrong because you all are going to buy this. So if they don't know that,
they don't make enough. It takes too long to get it once it comes out. So order it now.
Other books you can order extreme ownership, combat leadership for business and life.
Discipline equals freedom field manual. It's about getting after it. And actually,
late afternoon, I have a new book coming out, a follow up to extreme ownership. It's called the
dichotomy of leadership. It is available for preorder right now. Same thing order it now. So that
you get your copy when it comes out. Otherwise, you'll be waiting.
I have a leadership and management consulting company. It's called Ashilon Front. If you
want information about that, go to Ashilonfront.com. We have the Master, which is a leadership
conference coming up. If you want to come to it, go to extreme ownership.com. And also, if you
want to attend the role call, which is for military law enforcement firefighters, paramedics,
other first responders. If you want to do that, you can also sign up for the role call at extremotorship.com.
And with that, as I just mentioned, these podcasts, these three podcasts that we're doing right now,
are all linked. It's one big story with a thread running through it. And we are releasing them all at the
same time. So the next one will be 122 and 123. Go ahead and go listen to them right now.
Until then, this is echo and jockel out.